At Dragonstone

Queen Selyse is visited by her husband, King Stannis Baratheon, who admits his infidelity to her. He is surprised when she tells him that Melisandre has told her everything, and that she not only has no problem with it, but encourages it as service to the Lord of Light. Stannis then visits his daughter, Princess Shireen Baratheon. When she asks about the battle and Ser Davos Seaworth, Stannis tells her that Davos has been imprisoned for treason. Later, Shireen sneaks down to the dungeons to visit Davos and bring him a book, but Davos admits to her that he is illiterate. She begins teaching him to read, using a book on Aegon I's conquest of Westeros.
In the Riverlands

Thoros of Myr leads the Brotherhood in prayer before Lord Beric Dondarrion and Sandor "the Hound" Clegane begin their trial by combat. Dondarrion lights his sword on fire, frightening the Hound, due to his pyrophobia. Nonetheless, the Hound soon overpowers Dondarrion and kills him. When a furious Arya Stark moves to kill the Hound, she is stopped by Gendry. The three are then astounded to find that Dondarrion has been resurrected by Thoros, who frees the Hound, accepting that the judgment by battle has proved that the Lord of Light has more for him to do. Later, Arya finds Gendry repairing Dondarrion's armor, and he tells her that he intends to stay with the Brotherhood and work for them as a smith. After leaving Gendry, Arya talks with Thoros about taking her to Riverrun, before Dondarrion joins them. Thoros tells Arya that the Lord of Light has resurrected Dondarrion six times.
At Riverrun

The captives Martyn and Willem Lannister are slain by Lord Rickard Karstark and his men. King Robb Stark confronts Lord Karstark and orders he be locked in the dungeon, and his men who assisted him be hanged. When he orders Karstark be killed for his treason, Queen Talisa, Lady Catelyn Stark, and Lord Edmure Tully entreat him to hold Karstark as a prisoner, to keep the Karstark men loyal to their cause. However, Robb denies them, and personally executes Karstark.

Outraged with the death of their leader, the Karstark forces abandon the Northern army. Robb tries to plan a strategy for continuing the war against the Lannisters. He then tells Talisa that his new plan is to attack Casterly Rock, the home of the Lannisters. To replace the lost Karstark forces, he intends to forge an alliance with Lord Walder Frey; the man who controls the Twins, and whose daughter he was to marry in exchange for letting his army cross on their way to rescue Robb's father, Eddard.
At Harrenhal

Locke delivers Jaime Lannister and Brienne of Tarth to Lord Roose Bolton. Bolton, furious that his men have maimed a valuable hostage, frees Brienne and orders his men to take Jaime to see Qyburn, a maester who was stripped of his chain. Qyburn treats Jaime's right forearm; Jaime requests that he do so without analgesics. Later, Jaime is taken to the baths, where Brienne is already bathing. Jaime then tells her of Robert's Rebellion, the "Mad King" Aerys Targaryen, and the Mad King's plot to burn all of King's Landing using caches of wildfire hidden by a pyromancer through the city during the Sack of King's Landing. Jaime reveals that he slew the Mad King to save the city, its people and his own father's life.
Beyond the Wall

Orell pries information about the Wall patrols from Jon. Jon lies that there are a thousand men left guarding the Wall; Tormund accepts his claim, but threatens to kill him if he lies. Shortly afterward, Ygritte steals Jon's sword Longclaw and has him chase her into a cave, where she disrobes and convinces him to break his Night's Watch vows and make love with her.
In Slaver's Bay

While on the march, Ser Jorah Mormont and Ser Barristan Selmy discuss the siege of Pyke during Balon Greyjoy's first rebellion against the throne. Jorah pries into Barristan's motives for joining Daenerys Targaryen's cause, and tries to ascertain if Barristan is aware that Jorah was working as a spy for Varys, under King Robert Baratheon and his Small Council, when he first joined Daenerys. Barristan replies that he did not serve on Robert's Small Council, and appears to be unaware of Jorah's secret.

Daenerys assembles the officers for her Unsullied army. She tells them to select their own leader from among them, and they select a man called Grey Worm. Upon learning that their names were given to them as slaves to remind them of their standing, she tells them that they are free to choose their own names. Grey Worm tells her that he will keep his current name, as it is the one he had when she liberated the Unsullied and thus he considers it lucky.
In King's Landing

Queen Regent Cersei Lannister asks Lord Petyr Baelish for assistance in ridding King's Landing of the Tyrells, who, she claims, do not hold the Crown's best interests at heart. Later, Lady Sansa Stark and Lady Margaery Tyrell watch Ser Loras Tyrell practicing his swordplay. After the practice, Loras and his squire, Olyvar, have sex. Unbeknownst to Loras, Olyvar is a spy for Petyr Baelish and reports to him the Tyrells' plan to marry off Sansa. Baelish then meets with Sansa to discuss their journey to the Vale, but she tells him that she wants to stay in King's Landing.

Tyrion Lannister has a meeting with Lady Olenna regarding the rising cost of the upcoming royal wedding. She agrees to pay for half of the wedding, the news of which Tyrion takes to his father, Lord Tywin. Tywin tells Tyrion that he has learned of the Tyrells' plot to marry Sansa to Loras, and that he intends to act first by having Tyrion wed Sansa. Tyrion objects, but to no avail. Cersei is pleased by her brother's discomfort at the notion, until Tywin tells her that she will soon be wed to Ser Loras. Having spent years unhappily married in an arranged marriage she tries to convince him to spare her, but he refuses. 
