In King's Landing

Immediately following Joffrey's murder, Dontos and Sansa flee the feast while Cersei and Tywin order the city gates barred and all ships seized while they search the capital for Sansa. Dontos and Sansa arrive at a ship hiding in fog, where they are greeted by Lord Petyr Baelish. Baelish, who believes that Dontos will eventually reveal the conspiracy, orders his men to kill Dontos. Baelish also reveals that the necklace Dontos gave to Sansa was a fake and part of the ruse.

In the city gardens, Olenna and Margaery discuss Joffrey's murder, and how, as their marriage was unconsummated, she is not the Queen. In the Sept, Tywin speaks to Tommen about becoming the king and the qualities that a king must possess, then leaves Cersei to grieve for Joffrey alone. Jaime arrives soon after and consoles Cersei. She asks him to kill Tyrion before a trial can take place, adamant that he is responsible. Jaime refuses and rapes Cersei next to Joffrey's corpse.

While engaging in an intercourse, Prince Oberyn and Ellaria Sand are interrupted by Tywin, who requests to speak with Oberyn privately. Tywin believes that Oberyn may have had a hand in Joffrey's murder. Oberyn refutes his claims and directly accuses Tywin of ordering Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane to rape and murder his sister, Elia years earlier. Tywin denies the accusations, but offers to have the Mountain speak with Oberyn about her murder, in exchange for Oberyn serving as one of the three judges in Tyrion's trial and also as a member of the small council. In his cell, Tyrion is visited by his squire, Podrick. Podrick tells Tyrion he is to be tried in a fortnight and that Sansa has not been seen since the wedding. Before leaving, Podrick tells Tyrion that he was asked to testify against Tyrion in exchange for a knighthood. Tyrion orders him to bring Jaime and then flee the city, as he fears for Podrick's life.
In the North

Samwell is teased by Ser Alliser and Janos Slynt, who do not believe he was able to kill a White Walker. Samwell speaks with Gilly about moving her to Mole's Town to keep her safe, as many of the Night's Watch brothers were arrested for rape. Gilly wants to stay at Castle Black, but is taken to Mole's Town where Samwell finds her temporary lodging.

The wildling party led by Tormund Giantsbane raids a small village, and Styr forces a small boy, Olly, to run to Castle Black to tell the Night's Watch what they have done. At a gathering, Ser Alliser tells the men that their duty is to protect the Wall first, which is echoed by Maester Aemon. When Alliser asks Jon, he reluctantly agrees that they must prioritize the Wall, before he is interrupted by a horn blast indicating returning rangers. Edd Tollett and Grenn arrive and inform them that Karl and his band of mutineers are living in Craster's Keep. Jon remembers his lie to Mance Rayder about having 1,000 men guarding the Wall, ten times their actual number, and says they must ride north and kill the mutineers before Mance finds out the truth about the Night's Watch forces and realizes how badly he has them outnumbered.
At Dragonstone

Stannis has Davos read a letter sent to Dragonstone, informing them that Joffrey is dead. Stannis claims it is the result of leeching Gendry's blood and burning the leeches. He chastises Davos for releasing Gendry, and for not having managed to raise an army for their cause. Davos suggests hiring mercenaries from Essos, but Stannis points out that they have no gold. Davos then visits Shireen, who continues to teach him to read. During the lesson, he suddenly comes up with an idea and has her write a message to the Iron Bank of Braavos in Stannis' name.
In the Riverlands

The Hound and Arya continue their journey east toward the Vale of Arryn, before accepting an offer of shelter from a farmer. At dinner, the Hound agrees to work for the farmer in exchange for some silver, but in the morning, he steals the farmer's silver despite Arya's protests.
Outside Meereen
Daenerys and her army arrive outside Meereen, where they are received by the Champion of Meereen. Ser Jorah informs her that she must send her own champion to battle the one from Meereen. Her advisors argue over the chance to fight for her, but Daario Naharis is selected. Daario easily kills the champion. Daenerys then speaks to the city's slaves, telling them of her victories in Astapor and Yunkai, including freeing those cities' slaves. She then orders her catapults to fire, and they launch barrels filled with broken slave collars into the city as a sign of the freedom she intends to bring them. 
