In the Vale

Lady Catelyn Stark leads her entourage east through the Mountains of the Moon to get to the Vale, with Tyrion Lannister as her prisoner. However, they are soon attacked by barbarian tribesmen. During the fight, Tyrion saves Catelyn's life, attacking and killing a barbarian with a shield. The party arrives at the Eyrie, ruled by Lord Jon Arryn's widow, Lysa, who is also Catelyn's sister. However, when the two meet for the first time in five years, it becomes apparent that Lysa is mentally unstable and fears the Lannisters' power. Catelyn also meets her nephew, Robin Arryn, the heir to the Eyrie – an eight-year-old boy whom Lysa still breast-feeds. Tyrion is consigned to the Eyrie's version of a dungeon, the "sky cells", prison cells with an open wall and slanted floors that slope down to a precipice. Meanwhile, Lysa prepares to pass judgment on Tyrion as an accomplice in her husband's murder.
In the North

At Winterfell, Theon Greyjoy grows jealous of Tyrion after his favorite prostitute Ros taunts him with the judgment that Tyrion is a better lover and from a richer family. Meanwhile, Bran is depressed over his paralysis and the fact that his mother left him while he was in a coma. To cheer him up, Maester Luwin decides to teach Bran the Dothraki art of horseback archery.
In King's Landing

After Eddard Stark convinces King Robert not to join the tourney, the crowd watches a jousting match between the fearsome Ser Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane, brother of the Hound, and Ser Loras Tyrell, the "Knight of Flowers". The Mountain is a formidable opponent, but Loras cleverly defeats him in the joust by riding a mare in heat, distracting Clegane's stallion. Furious, Clegane beheads his horse and attempts to kill Loras. Sandor "The Hound" Clegane comes to Tyrell's rescue and defends him against his brother until Robert orders them to stop. Grateful for being rescued, Loras calls Sandor a hero when he is cheered by the crowd.

Later, Varys reveals to Ned that Jon Arryn was killed for asking questions, succumbing to a poison called the "Tears of Lys". He also suggests that Lord Arryn's former squire, the recently slain Ser Hugh of the Vale, was the poisoner.

Meanwhile, Arya, as part of her training, chases a cat through the Red Keep and stumbles upon a secret conversation between two men (Varys and Illyrio), who appear to be plotting against the throne. Arya tries to warn her father, but is unable to identify the two plotters and fumbles her words. They are interrupted by the arrival of Yoren, who informs Ned of his wife's arrest of Tyrion.

The news of Daenerys's pregnancy reaches the Small Council, delivered by one of Varys's spies. Fearing a possible invasion by the Targaryen/Dothraki alliance, Robert orders that she and her unborn child, along with Viserys, be assassinated. Ned refuses to obey such a dishonorable order since Robert's hatred for Targaryens is clouding his judgment and ordering such an assassination will make him no better than the Mad King. When Robert's mind is clearly made, Ned resigns the office of Hand of the King, much to Robert's anger. As Robert drinks in sorrow over his fight with Ned, Cersei visits Robert and he explains why he takes the Dothraki threat seriously. Meanwhile, Robert's youngest brother Renly is with his lover, Ser Loras. Loras convinces Renly that he should be king because Loras believes that Renly would be a better ruler than either his brothers or nephews.

Before he can leave the capital, Littlefinger offers to take Ned to the last person Jon Arryn spoke to before his death. It turns out to be a prostitute, Mhaegan, the mother of a baby daughter, who is another of Robert's illegitimate children. Littlefinger reveals Jon Arryn had been searching for Robert's bastards for an unknown reason. When Ned and his guards try to leave, they are ambushed by Jaime Lannister and his men, who want answers for Tyrion's arrest. Ned claims responsibility for Tyrion's arrest, which leads to a brutal fight between his and Jaime's men. In the end, Ned's guards are killed, including his captain Jory Cassel, whom Jaime stabs through the eye with a dagger. Ned duels with Jaime but is speared through the leg by one of Jaime's guards before Stark and Lannister can finish the fight on their own. Jaime knocks out the guard who interrupted the fight and decides to let Ned live but warns that he wants his brother back. Jaime storms away, leaving Ned bleeding in the dirt, where he quickly faints. 
