In the Riverlands

Sandor Clegane tracks down some of the Brotherhood Without Banners men and brutally kills them, searching for their leader. He then comes across Beric Dondarrion and Thoros of Myr, who are preparing to hang the men responsible for the attack on the village. Sandor bargains with Beric, who allows him to personally hang two of the men. Beric and Thoros try to recruit Sandor into the Brotherhood, explaining that they intend to head north to fight the White Walkers and need his strength.

Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne arrive at Riverrun, where they reunite with Jaime Lannister and Bronn. Brienne explains that she has come to recruit the Blackfish and the Tully army for Sansa, but Jaime points out that he is currently besieged in Riverrun and refuses to surrender the castle. Brienne proposes that if she can convince the Blackfish to surrender the castle, then Jaime will allow him and the Tully army safe passage to the North. Jaime agrees to the plan, but gives Brienne until nightfall. She then returns Oathkeeper to Jaime, stating that she has completed her mission. Jaime, however, tells Brienne that she can keep it, as Oathkeeper is hers and hers alone. Brienne then attempts to negotiate with the Blackfish, but he refuses to abandon Riverrun, despite being sympathetic to Sansa's plight.

Meanwhile, Jaime talks with Edmure Tully, trying to win his cooperation by tempting him with seeing his newborn son, whom he has never seen, and offering to send him and his family to Casterly Rock, away from the Freys. Edmure ridicules Jaime and all of his past misdeeds, and asks him how he can live with himself. Jaime responds how he wants to take Riverrun to be back with Cersei, and he is willing to do anything to achieve it, even if it means killing every Tully he finds, including Edmure and his son. Jaime then sends Edmure to parley with the Blackfish. Despite the Blackfish's protests, the Tully soldiers allow Edmure entry into the castle. Edmure then orders his men to surrender Riverrun, and also orders the Blackfish's capture. The Blackfish helps Brienne and Podrick escape, but remains to fight to the end.

Jaime is informed about the death of the Blackfish, and sees Brienne and Pod escaping on the river. Both Jaime and Brienne mournfully wave each other farewell.
In Meereen

With the Red Priests on their side and spreading pro-Daenerys propaganda, Tyrion Lannister and Varys see Meereen returning to life. After warning Tyrion not to trust the Red Priests, Varys leaves for Westeros on a secret mission to find more allies and ships. Tyrion then has a drink with Grey Worm and Missandei. He then tries to introduce them to humor by trading jokes. As they start having a good time, they are interrupted when a fleet which was sent by the masters arrives to attack the city, with Missandei explaining that they have come to recover their "property". As the masters' fleet bombards Meereen into the night, Tyrion and Grey Worm discuss their strategy when Daenerys Targaryen returns to the city, arriving at the top of the Great Pyramid with Drogon.
In King's Landing

The Faith Militant, led by Lancel Lannister with King Tommen Baratheon's blessing, arrive to take Cersei Lannister to see the High Sparrow (whom they now refer to as the High Septon). Cersei refuses to go with them and when one of the Faith Militant attacks, he is brutally killed by Gregor Clegane. Seeing the rest of the Faith Militant soldiers intimidated, Cersei remarks that the High Sparrow is free to come to the Red Keep to see her. She then attends a royal announcement by Tommen in the throne room, but is denied standing by his side by Kevan Lannister, her uncle and Hand of the King. Tommen then announces the date that Cersei and Loras' trials will be held, and that, in consultation with the High Sparrow, he has decided to end the practice of trial by combat as a means of resolving conflicts. The prospect of a trial by seven septons clearly worries Cersei. Qyburn then reports to Cersei about the "rumor" that she ordered him to investigate, and he remarks that it is "more, much more".
In Braavos

Lady Crane returns to her chambers to find a wounded Arya Stark hiding inside, and helps stitch her wounds. She tells Arya that thanks to her warning, she mutilated her would-be killer Bianca's face before kicking her out of the acting company. She then offers to have Arya join them, but she refuses, saying that she intends to travel west of Westeros to see the edge of the world. As Arya recovers, The Waif arrives and kills Lady Crane, intending to kill Arya as well. Arya flees through the streets of Braavos, but during the chase, Arya's wounds reopen and she limps back to her hideout with the Waif in close pursuit. As the Waif closes in, Arya uses Needle to cut a candle, plunging the room into total darkness, where, having been trained while blinded for several weeks, Arya gains the upper hand.

At the House of Black and White, Jaqen H'ghar finds a bloodtrail and follows it to the Hall of Faces, where he finds the Waif's face. Arya then holds Jaqen at sword point. Jaqen congratulates Arya by telling her that she is finally No One. However, she rejects the title, asserting her identity as Arya Stark before turning and leaving, announcing that she is "going home." Jaqen proudly watches on as she leaves. 
