On Dragonstone

Daenerys Targaryen confronts Varys over his previously shifting allegiances. Varys declares his loyalty is to the people; Daenerys secures his oath to tell her directly if she fails the people, and promises his death if he betrays her. Daenerys grants an audience to Melisandre, who urges her to meet Jon Snow as they both "have roles to play." Tyrion Lannister vouches for Snow and recommends the Starks as allies. Daenerys instructs Tyrion to summon Jon to bend the knee. Yara Greyjoy and Ellaria Sand support an overwhelming offensive on King's Landing, but Daenerys doesn't wish to destroy the territory she plans to rule; she adopts Tyrion's plan: her Westerosi armies will besiege King's Landing, while the Unsullied will take Casterly Rock. Olenna Tyrell advises Daenerys to ignore advice from "clever men."

Before departing to lead his army, Grey Worm reveals to Missandei that she is his weakness, because he never feared before loving her. Missandei is moved by his words and they have sex.
In Oldtown

Archmaester Ebrose tells Samwell Tarly that Jorah Mormont's greyscale is untreatably advanced; Jorah has about six months of sanity left, and suicide is his only alternative to exile among the Stone Men of Valyria. Samwell discovers a treatment; Ebrose tells him it is forbidden because it risks transmission, but Samwell performs the agonizing procedure in secret.
At Winterfell

Jon Snow receives Daenerys' message, which Tyrion has worded diplomatically as an invitation. Sansa Stark and Davos Seaworth advocate refusal, but the latter notes the efficacy of dragonfire against the undead. After receiving Samwell's information about dragonglass on Dragonstone, Jon decides to go, despite uniform opposition from his loyalists; he will not dishonor his equal Daenerys by sending an emissary. Jon names Sansa as regent, surprising her, and threatens Littlefinger to stop pursuing Sansa.
In the Riverlands

Hot Pie tells Arya Stark that Jon Snow has retaken Winterfell; she turns north. Beset by a wolfpack, she recognizes the alpha as her direwolf Nymeria, having driven her off years earlier, and invites her north; Nymeria instead leaves her in peace.
In King's Landing

Cersei Lannister appeals to lords, including House Tyrell's bannermen, for support against Daenerys, portraying her as a dangerous foreign invader. Jaime Lannister offers Randyll Tarly Lordship of the South if he becomes Jaime's second-in-command. Qyburn demonstrates a scorpion, a projectile weapon, for Cersei; its bolt pierces the skull of Balerion, Aegon the Conqueror's largest dragon.
In the Narrow Sea
Euron Greyjoy's Iron Fleet attacks Yara's navy. Euron kills Obara and Nymeria Sand; his men abduct Ellaria and Tyene Sand, while he takes Yara prisoner. Theon Greyjoy, triggered by the violence, jumps overboard, abandoning Yara and surviving the battle. 
