In King's Landing

Tyrion Lannister asks Lord Varys, laboring to open a large crate, for proof that Queen Regent Cersei Lannister tried to have him killed during the Battle of the Blackwater. Varys replies that he has none, but advises that revenge requires patience and tells the story of being made a eunuch decades earlier by a sorcerer in Myr. Once his story concludes, Varys opens the crate to reveal the whimpering sorcerer inside. Later, Varys gathers information from Ros, who reveals that Lord Petyr Baelish may take Sansa Stark with him when he leaves for the Eyrie to wed Lysa Arryn. Varys also meets with Lady Olenna Tyrell, asking about her interest in Sansa. He warns her that Baelish could become dangerous if he could obtain more power by controlling the heir to the North.

King Joffrey Baratheon takes Lady Margaery Tyrell on a tour of the Great Sept of Baelor, where Cersei and Lady Olenna are discussing the wedding. Margaery encourages Joffrey to give love to the people, urging him to open the doors to the balcony to wave to the crowd, which angers Cersei. Later, Cersei meets with her father, Tywin, to discuss the importance of getting Jaime back, as well as the Tyrell presence in King's Landing. Cersei distrusts Margaery for her ability to manipulate Joffrey. Margaery and Sansa get to know one another when Margaery finds Sansa at prayer in the godswood. Margaery expresses her hope that Sansa will come to see the Tyrell seat of Highgarden, but Sansa says Cersei will not allow her to leave King's Landing. Margaery replies that once she is queen, she would see Sansa wed to her brother, Ser Loras.
In the North

Bran dreams he is running through the woods with Jojen Reed, chasing the three-eyed raven. Bran climbs a tree in pursuit of the raven, but falls when his mother, Catelyn, appears, commanding him not to climb.

Theon Greyjoy and the boy who freed him ride for Deepwood Motte, where the boy claims Theon's sister Yara is waiting. While in the castle's underground entrance tunnel, Theon explains that he never found or killed the Stark boys, instead having Dagmer Cleftjaw kill and burn two orphans as substitutes. He also reveals his remorse for his actions and claims that Eddard Stark was his true father all along. When they enter the castle, the boy lights a torch to reveal that he has taken Theon back to the dungeon from which he'd helped him escape. Guards subdue Theon while the boy watches in delight.
In the Riverlands

Locke and his men taunt Ser Jaime Lannister for their removal of his sword hand. When Jaime falls from his horse, he steals a sword from one of Locke's men and attacks them, but, due to his weakened condition and having to use his left hand, he is quickly beaten. At camp, Brienne of Tarth talks with Jaime, who refuses to eat, saying he wants to die. She chastises him for quitting and tells him to live so that he can take revenge on Locke.

Arya Stark, Gendry, and Sandor "the Hound" Clegane are transported to the hideout of the Brotherhood Without Banners by Thoros of Myr and his men. They are introduced to the Brotherhood's leader, Lord Beric Dondarrion, who calls Clegane a murderer, which Clegane rejects on the grounds that all his killings were duty-bound protection of the king. Arya tells the Brotherhood about Mycah, the butcher's boy Clegane killed, but Clegane defends the execution as justified by Mycah having attacked the king, which Arya protests is untrue. Dondarrion sentences Clegane to fight him in a trial by combat.
Beyond the Wall

Grenn, Edd Tollett and Rast have been forced to work at Craster's Keep, caring for the pigs; Rast declares that they cannot trust Craster. Samwell Tarly and Gilly discuss her newborn son and his likely murder by Craster. The men of the Night's Watch hold a funeral for a fallen brother and soon return to Craster's Keep for dinner. Brother Karl Tanner challenges Craster, complaining about the poor food they have been given. Rast then enrages Craster by mentioning his bastard parentage. Craster grabs his hatchet and orders the Night's Watch out of his keep, threatening to mutilate the next one who calls him a bastard. After a moment of silence, Karl calls Craster a list of vulgar insults including the word "bastard"; Craster lunges at Karl, who stabs Craster in the throat. When Lord Commander Jeor Mormont attempts to fight Karl, Rast stabs him in the back, and, after the commander falls, stabs him repeatedly. As a fight breaks out amongst the Night's Watch brothers, Sam flees with Gilly and her infant son.
In Astapor
Daenerys Targaryen and her followers arrive to complete the trade of one of her dragons to the slaver Kraznys for the 8,000-strong Unsullied army. During the exchange, Kraznys repeatedly insults her in Valyrian yet again. After completing the exchange, Daenerys – in fluent Valyrian, claiming it as her mother tongue due to her Targaryen ancestry – orders her new army of Unsullied to sack Astapor, kill all the slavers and free every slave they find. When a horrified Kraznys tries to order the Unsullied to turn on their new mistress, Daenerys reclaims her dragon by ordering it to kill Kraznys. After the battle ends, she frees the Unsullied and tells them they may remain with her as free men or leave if they choose. None choose to leave her, showing their support by pounding their spears in unison. Daenerys and her army depart Astapor. 
