At the Lannister camp

At dinner, Lord Tywin tells his son Tyrion that Tyrion and his barbarian allies will fight in the vanguard of the army. Tyrion suspects his father is trying to get him killed. Tyrion returns to his camp and finds the prostitute Shae whom Bronn found for him at Tyrion's request. As the three of them swap stories, Tyrion reveals that, when he was 16, he married a woman named Tysha whom Jaime and he had rescued. When his father Tywin learned of this, he made Jaime confess that Tysha was actually a hired prostitute. Tywin then made Tyrion watch as Lannister guardsmen all had sex with her, each paying her one silver coin provided by Lord Tywin.

Later, Tyrion is awakened by Bronn as a Stark force approaches. Tyrion leaves his tent dressed in armor and orders the hill tribes to combat, but he is trampled as they rush to war. By the time he regains consciousness, the battle has been played out. Lord Tywin reveals that the Stark host was only 2,000 men, leaving them to wonder where the other 18,000 went.
At the Twins

The Stark army arrives at the Twins, a fortified bridge stronghold controlled by the cranky Lord Walder Frey, who is nominally sworn to Catelyn's father Hoster Tully. However, Lord Frey has sealed off the bridge and refuses to let the army cross, so Catelyn negotiates on her son Robb's behalf. After some hard bargaining, Frey agrees to allow the Stark army to cross through The Twins and to commit some of his troops to the conflict with the Lannisters, but, in return, he wants Robb and his sister Arya to marry two of his children, to which Robb reluctantly agrees.

After crossing the river, Robb divides his forces, sending the aforementioned 2,000 men to distract Lord Tywin's army. Due to the false information Robb gave to the captured Lannister scout, Lord Tywin's force believes it is the whole Stark army. The remainder of Robb's men sneak up on Jaime Lannister's army, defeating them and capturing Jaime. When captured, Jaime challenges Robb to a one-on-one duel to settle the matter, which Robb declines.
At the Wall

Lord Commander Mormont gives Jon Snow House Mormont's ancestral Valyrian steel sword Longclaw, which was originally meant for his son Ser Jorah before Jorah's exile, as a reward for saving his life from the undead ranger. Jon is upset, however, when Sam tells him about Robb's war against the Lannisters, feeling that he should be there to help Robb.

Maester Aemon summons Jon and explains to him the reason why members of the Night's Watch do not marry: it would force them to choose between their duty to the order or loyalty to their loved ones. Aemon knows this very well because he is actually Aemon Targaryen, the Mad King Aerys Targaryen's uncle and Daenerys's great-uncle, who dutifully and reluctantly stayed at the Wall while his family members were killed or exiled when the Targaryens were overthrown. Aemon advises Jon that he must choose either his duty to the Night's Watch or his family, but also warns that the consequences of his choice will haunt him for the rest of his life.
In Lhazar

Khal Drogo, delirious from an infection caused by the chest wound inflicted by Mago, falls from his saddle, a sign of weakness among the Dothraki. Daenerys takes Drogo into her tent and sends for Mirri Maz Duur to help him. However, Ser Jorah Mormont advises Daenerys that they should leave now because the Dothraki only respect the physically strong. He explains that, if Drogo dies, Qotho and the other bloodriders will fight amongst themselves to be his successor; whoever wins will kill her and her unborn child to prevent Drogo's son from growing up to be a rival. Daenerys refuses to abandon her husband, even when Mirri tells Daenerys that she cannot save him and instead advises giving Drogo a quick, clean death. In desperation, Daenerys encourages Mirri to use blood magic despite Mirri's warning about the consequences of such a spell, that only death can pay for life. Mirri brings Drogo's horse into the tent, slits its throat, orders everyone to leave, and warns that none must enter during the spell. Qotho, shocked at what Daenerys has done, tries to stop the spell, but Mormont kills him to prevent interference. Daenerys then goes into premature labor, but none of the Dothraki midwives help her, owing to their belief that she is cursed. In desperation, Mormont carries Daenerys into Drogo's tent to seek Mirri's help.
In King's Landing

Varys visits Ned in the dungeons and tells Ned that if he makes a false confession and swears loyalty to King Joffrey, Cersei will spare Ned and let him serve the Night's Watch as his exile. Ned initially refuses but relents after Varys tells him that his daughter Sansa's life is also at stake.

Arya, who has been living as a beggar in the streets of King's Landing since her escape from the Lannisters, learns a crowd is gathering at the Great Sept of Baelor, where her father will be judged before the gods, and in order to see over the crowd, climbs onto the statue of Baelor the Blessed. As he is dragged through the crowd, Ned notices Arya on the statue, and alerts the Night's Watch recruiter Yoren to her location. With Sansa, Cersei, Joffrey and the Small Council looking over him, Ned confesses to treason and swears fealty to Joffrey in front of the crowd. Satisfied, Sansa and Cersei ask Joffrey to spare Ned as Joffrey promised, but Joffrey breaks his promise and orders Ned to be executed. As Sansa watches in horror, Cersei, Varys and the Small Council attempt to intervene, and Arya tries to rescue Ned, only to be stopped by Yoren, who prevents her from seeing her father's execution. When he sees that Arya has been rescued, Ned accepts his fate and is beheaded by Ser Ilyn Payne. 
