In King's Landing

Jaime Lannister continues his sword training with Bronn and visits his imprisoned brother Tyrion. Tyrion denies responsibility for Joffrey Baratheon's murder but says that Cersei Lannister will not rest until he is dead. Jaime tells Tyrion that Cersei also wants to recapture Sansa Stark, in whose innocence Tyrion is confident.

As Lady Olenna Tyrell prepares to depart for Highgarden, she encourages Margaery Tyrell to bond with Joffrey's brother and successor, Tommen, before Cersei can turn him against her. Olenna also implies that she had a hand in Joffrey's death to protect Margaery from his cruelty. In the evening, an angry Cersei questions Jaime's loyalties and is unwilling to hear of Tyrion's innocence. At night, Margaery sneaks into Tommen's room to talk with him about their marriage, and he appears smitten by her charms.

Later, Jaime tasks Brienne of Tarth with finding and protecting Sansa. He gives her new armor, his Valyrian steel sword, which she names "Oathkeeper", and the service of Podrick Payne as a squire.
At sea

On the way to the Eyrie, Lord Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish tells Sansa that he plans to marry her aunt Lysa Arryn there. He refers to his new but unspecified powerful allies, stating that Joffrey's death was a gift to them that will help their friendship "grow strong". He adds that, because he has no visible motive to kill Joffrey, he will not be suspected. Littlefinger informs Sansa that a missing stone in her necklace contained the poison used for the murder.
At the Wall

At Castle Black, Ser Alliser Thorne orders Jon Snow to stop training other men, reminding Jon that he is officially a steward. Janos Slynt advises Thorne to send the now-popular Jon on an expedition to kill the mutineers at Craster's Keep in the hope that he will be killed before he can be elected the new Lord Commander. Jon volunteers for the mission, as do his friends Grenn, Edd, the new recruit Locke and a few others.
In Meereen

As Daenerys Targaryen's army camps near Meereen, her aide Missandei teaches Grey Worm the Common Tongue, the language of Westeros. At night, Grey Worm and other Unsullied infiltrate Meereen, arm the slaves, and incite a slave uprising that leaves Daenerys in control of the city the following morning. Although Ser Barristan Selmy advises Daenerys to show mercy, she orders 163 of the remaining masters crucified, as justice for the same number of slave children crucified along the road to Meereen.
Beyond the Wall

At Craster's Keep, the mutineers led by Karl Tanner are raping, eating and drinking their fill, with Karl drinking from the skull of Lord Commander Jeor Mormont. Karl orders his henchman Rast to dispose of Craster's last child, a son, after Craster's wives ask that he be "given to the gods". Karl realizes that the child will be taken by the White Walkers, and that this is how Craster protected himself from them. He reasons that if they continue to uphold the bargain they too will be safe; Rast complies and abandons the infant in the woods. Nearby, Bran Stark and his companions hear the infant's cries. They are captured by the mutineers, and Bran is forced to admit his identity.

Later, a White Walker retrieves Craster's son. The Walker travels to the White Walkers' fortress in the Lands of Always Winter and lays the child on an altar made of ice. The leader of the White Walkers, the Night King, approaches and places his hand on the boy, transforming him into a White Walker. 
