At Winterfell

Arya confronts Sansa about the letter Sansa wrote in favor of Joffrey and the Lannisters. Sansa explains she was a child and threatened by Cersei, but Arya rejects her reasoning. They argue over how neither of them saved Ned, and Arya accuses Sansa of mainly being concerned that she will lose face with the Northern lords if the letter is made public. Sansa confides in Littlefinger, who suggests that Brienne, sworn to serve both sisters, would intervene if Arya acted against Sansa. However, when Cersei invites Sansa to King's Landing, Sansa sends Brienne as her representative, despite Brienne's protests and desire to protect Sansa from Littlefinger. Sansa searches Arya's room and finds Arya's faces. Arya discovers Sansa and explains her training with the Faceless Men. Arya says she could take Sansa's face, seemingly threatening her with the Valyrian steel dagger before instead leaving her with it.
At Dragonstone

Tyrion suspects Cersei will lay a trap when they meet. He questions how Daenerys, who believes herself infertile, can establish a legacy that will outlive her. She refuses to discuss the succession before ascending to the Iron Throne. Tyrion asserts that Jon is the latest "heroic" man to fall in love with Daenerys.
Beyond the Wall

Jon, the Hound, Jorah, Beric, Thoros, and Gendry journey beyond the wall with Tormund and five other Wildlings. They have various personal and philosophical conversations. Jeor had given Jon his family sword, Longclaw; Jon offers it to Jorah, but Jorah insists Jon keep it. An undead polar bear attacks, killing a Wildling; Thoros is savaged saving the Hound. The men kill the bear; Thoros's wounds are cauterized and he continues. Jon and the others ambush and destroy a White Walker accompanied by wights, and all but one of the wights instantly collapse, inanimate. They capture the last wight, still animate. A horde of wights approaches; Gendry is sent alone to Eastwatch to send a raven to Daenerys while the others are trapped on a small island, separated from the wights by broken ice. The Night King and other White Walkers watch from high ground. Thoros succumbs to his wounds and the others cremate him.

Gendry collapses from exhaustion at Eastwatch; Davos saves him and has the raven sent to Daenerys. Daenerys flies Drogon north with Rhaegal and Viserion, having received the raven and having rejected Tyrion's advice to "do nothing."

The wights attack Jon's group when the water refreezes, killing another Wildling and nearly overrunning the party. Daenerys arrives and the dragons burn many wights. The men try to evacuate on Drogon but the wights continue their attack; using an ice javelin, the Night King kills Viserion.[3] Jon stays on the ground to cover the others' departure, but Daenerys only leaves after Jon is pulled into the water. Jon emerges from the water and is saved by Benjen Stark, who gives Jon his horse. Benjen falls against the wights while Jon escapes to Eastwatch.

Jon recovers aboard a ship. He apologizes to Daenerys for Viserion's death; she tearfully accepts the loss as the cost of her learning the truth, and she vows to fight the Night King with Jon. He calls her 'my Queen' and believes the Northern lords will come to accept her leadership. Daenerys hopes to be worthy of that trust.

Beyond the wall, the Night King reanimates Viserion. 
