Ser Davos Seaworth leads King Stannis Baratheon's fleet into Blackwater Bay. Before their arrival, Tyrion and Shae discuss the possibility of the Lannister defeat. Queen Regent Cersei is given a powerful poison by Grand Maester Pycelle to be used should the city fall, since she believes a victorious Stannis will eliminate the Lannister nobility. Outside the Red Keep, Bronn drinks and sings with his men, but the mood is soured by the arrival of Sandor "the Hound" Clegane. Tensions rise between Bronn and the Hound, but before they can fight, the bells ring, indicating Stannis' fleet has been spotted. Lord Varys brings Tyrion a map of the tunnels beneath King's Landing, as requested. Varys is unnerved by Stannis' associations with the dark arts, having heard he has begun a relationship with a Red Priestess. King Joffrey jubilantly leads the defending forces from the Red Keep, and orders his betrothed, Sansa Stark, to kiss his sword, vowing that he will use it to slay her brother Robb one day. The noble ladies and children are interned at Maegor's Holdfast and kept under watch by Ser Ilyn Payne, the royal executioner, who Cersei claims is present for their protection. Becoming drunk, Cersei has several pointed conversations with Sansa, mocking her innocence and warning her to expect to be raped should the city fall.

As Stannis's fleet closes in, they are confronted by a single ship from King's Landing heading for them, seemingly abandoned and unmanned. Davos realizes too late that it is a trap; the unmanned ship is rigged with the explosive chemical "wildfire" and explodes as Bronn fires a flaming arrow at the bay. Several ships are instantly destroyed, killing scores of Stannis' men, seemingly including Davos and his son Matthos. Stannis nevertheless orders his surviving army to beach via rowboat and begin the assault on the city's vulnerable Mud Gate. Tyrion orders the Hound to lead a counterstrike. The defenders are routed in the melee. Lancel is injured and flees back to Maegor's Holdfast, while the Hound, succumbing to his childhood fear of fire, deserts altogether after watching a charging soldier burn alive. Stannis himself storms the city battlements and is first up the ladder into the city. Almost unopposed, Stannis's men attack the Mud Gate with a battering ram. At the holdfast, Cersei attempts to interrogate Shae and nearly learns of her true origins, while Sansa learns of Ser Ilyn's true purpose in the hold: kill the holdfast's residents should Stannis take the city.

Lancel arrives at the holdfast and informs Queen Cersei that Stannis's men are at the gates. Cersei responds by ordering Lancel to bring Joffrey back from the battlements and into the safety of the Red Keep. Frightened, Joffrey agrees to leave the battlefield and orders one of the Kingsguard, Ser Mandon Moore, to represent him in his stead, sending morale plummeting amongst the defenders. Tyrion takes charge of the remaining men, rousing them with a speech and leading them through one of the tunnels from Varys' map, allowing them to flank the Baratheons. Lancel returns to the holdfast and demands that the king return to battle, causing Cersei to assault him and depart from the hold with her son Prince Tommen, leaving the other noble ladies alone with Ser Ilyn. Sansa rallies the panicking ladies with prayer but is convinced by Shae to flee from the hold to her quarters. When Sansa arrives at her chambers, she is startled by the Hound, who is fleeing the city and offers to take her north with him. Sansa initially declines his offer, although her final decision remains unclear.

Tyrion, having led his men through the tunnel, attacks the surprised Baratheon men from behind, defeating them with ease. They stop to celebrate their victory, but soon return to fighting as a larger group of Stannis's men arrive from nearby. As Tyrion fights, he is unexpectedly attacked by Ser Mandon and slashed across his face. Before Tyrion can be killed, his squire, Podrick Payne, kills Ser Mandon. Simultaneously Cersei is in the great hall with Prince Tommen sitting on the Iron Throne and comforting him as the battle rages on at the city walls. She tells him a story about “The mother lion and her little cub” lion being the banner of House Lannister symbolizing her relationship with her children and all the other banners such as stags, wolves and bears as their enemies quoting “You are a lion my son, you mustn't be afraid”. As Tyrion slips into unconsciousness, he witnesses Stannis' army being suddenly struck by a surprise assault from a cavalry force led by Tywin Lannister. Stannis is seen ordering his men to stand their ground, even when he is being dragged away to safety. Cersei, having fled to the great hall with Prince Tommen, is about to give him the poison, when she is startled by the arrival of Ser Loras Tyrell (who is dressed in the armor of Renly Baratheon), and her father, Lord Tywin Lannister, who declares that they have won the battle. 
