In the North

Jon Snow, Sansa Stark, and Davos Seaworth begin searching for allies to retake Winterfell from the Boltons. First, they secure the allegiance of the Wildlings, who are still indebted to Jon for saving them at Hardhome, and are aware the Boltons will wipe them out if they do nothing. They also manage to secure the allegiance of House Mormont when Davos warns the young Lady Lyanna Mormont of the dangers the White Walkers pose. However, they are unable to secure the allegiance of House Glover, with Lord Robett Glover pointing out how Robb Stark failed to protect his home from the Ironborn.

In the end, Jon and Sansa are only able to recruit a small number of minor houses, only adding a few hundred extra soldiers to their army. Despite being heavily outnumbered, Jon is adamant that they attack Winterfell as soon as possible before the Boltons rally more forces and before the weather turns on them. Sansa disagrees, insisting that they try and recruit more houses. When Jon refuses to change his mind, Sansa begins writing a letter to be sent by raven.
In King's Landing

The High Sparrow chides Queen Margaery Tyrell that she needs to provide King Tommen Baratheon with an heir, and that she should try to convert her grandmother Olenna to the Faith, subtly remarking that Olenna's safety cannot be guaranteed otherwise. Margaery meets with Olenna, who attempts to convince her to leave King's Landing and return to Highgarden. Margaery refuses, stating that as Queen, her place is supposed to be at King Tommen's side. Margaery discreetly slips her a piece of paper with the sigil of House Tyrell drawn on it, indicating that she is still loyal to her family, upon which Olenna agrees to leave. Cersei Lannister then confronts Olenna, and tries to convince her to stay and fight the Sparrows. Olenna points out that they have already lost and blames the Sparrows' rise to power on Cersei's lack of foresight. Despite having no allies in King's Landing, Cersei decides to stay and fight.
In Volantis

Theon and Yara Greyjoy take the Iron Fleet to Volantis to take on supplies. Yara, who is enjoying a female Volantene prostitute, tries to encourage Theon to regain his former identity and confidence, as she will need his assistance in retaking the Iron Islands. Yara then reveals to Theon that she plans to take the Iron Fleet to Meereen and forge an alliance with Daenerys Targaryen before Euron Greyjoy reaches her.
In Braavos

Arya Stark successfully secures passage back to Westeros by bribing a Westerosi trader. However, she is subsequently attacked on a nearby bridge and repeatedly stabbed in the abdomen by the Waif, in the guise of an elderly woman. Arya pushes the Waif away, and barely escapes by jumping off the bridge and swimming away underwater. After surfacing, she is then left stumbling through the streets, critically wounded.
In the Riverlands

Jaime Lannister and Bronn lead the Lannister army to Riverrun, where Lothar Frey and Walder Rivers attempt to coerce the Blackfish into surrendering the castle by threatening to execute Edmure Tully. The Blackfish calls their bluff and refuses to surrender. Disgusted with the Freys' incompetence, Jaime takes charge of the siege, orders Edmure to be bathed and fed, and attempts to parley with the Blackfish, warning him that the Lannisters will show no mercy to the Tullys if they do not surrender the castle. The Blackfish is not intimidated by Jaime's threats and dares him to try and seize the castle, declaring that the Tullys have enough provisions stockpiled to outlast a Lannister siege.

Sandor Clegane, otherwise known as the Hound, is revealed to have survived his wounds, and is now living among a small band of villagers. Their leader, a warrior turned septon named Ray, talks with Sandor, and recounts how he found Sandor on the verge of death and nursed him back to health. However, Sandor still feels guilt over his past sins, feeling he has not been punished for them. At a gathering, a trio of men from the Brotherhood Without Banners arrives and attempts to extort the villagers, but upon finding out that they have no worthwhile possessions, they leave. Sandor warns Ray that the Brotherhood will return, but Ray refuses to prepare for a confrontation with them. After Sandor goes out to the forest to gather some wood, he returns to find the villagers slaughtered and Ray hanged. Enraged, Sandor picks up an axe and marches off. 
