In King's Landing

Sansa Stark is invited to lunch by Lady Margaery Tyrell and her grandmother Lady Olenna. While there, Sansa is asked to tell them about King Joffrey Baratheon, and whether he will be a good husband to Margaery. Sansa is reluctant to speak the truth about him, but she is eventually persuaded to tell them of his cruelty.

While being fitted for his wedding clothes, King Joffrey discusses his bride-to-be with his mother, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister. Afterward, he invites Margaery to his chamber to discuss his upcoming hunt. He grows impatient with her answers to his questions regarding her last husband, Renly Baratheon, and whether they consummated their marriage. Margaery informs him that they did not, and under further questioning she explains that Renly did not appreciate the "company of women". The conversation turns to Joffrey's new crossbow; Margaery feigns interest, and Joffrey tells Margaery that he would enjoy watching her kill something with it.

Tyrion Lannister returns to his chamber to find Shae waiting for him. He warns her of his father's promise to him regarding his whoring, but she is undaunted. She warns him that Lord Baelish has taken an interest in Sansa Stark, to which he replies that, now that she is no longer Joffrey's future queen, many men will take interest in her.
Beyond the Wall

Mance Rayder continues to be distrustful of Jon Snow, speaking to him while marching toward the wall. Along with Tormund Giantsbane and Ygritte, they stop briefly to speak with Orell. Orell is revealed to be a warg, one who is capable of seeing through the eyes of animals. He awakens from his trance to tell Mance that he has seen the Fist of the First Men and the aftermath of the battle which took place there.

While marching back to the Wall, Samwell Tarly falls from exhaustion. He is aided by Grenn and Edd, before Lord Commander Jeor Mormont orders Rast, who had been taunting Sam as fat and slow and urging he be left behind, to ensure Sam reaches the Wall alive.
In the North

While heading toward the Wall, Bran Stark has a dream where he is trying to shoot the three-eyed Raven, but is confronted by a boy who explains that it is impossible, as Bran is the Raven. When he awakens, Bran, Hodor, Osha and Rickon continue their northern march. Later, while Hodor and Rickon are away, Osha suspects someone is following them and leaves to investigate. Bran is then confronted by the boy from his dream, who reveals that he is Jojen Reed, and a seer like Bran. He is accompanied by his sister, Meera. Jojen says that he too had the dream, and that they have been searching for Bran, believing he will play a critical role in the future.
In an unknown location

Theon Greyjoy has been taken captive by a group of men and is being tortured for information. Despite Theon answering all questions truthfully, they continue the torture. After they leave, a boy, who claims to have been sent by Theon's sister Yara Greyjoy, promises to aid him once the soldiers are sleeping.
In the Riverlands

King-in-the-North Robb Stark receives two letters, one informing him of the death of his grandfather, Lord Hoster Tully, and the other bearing the news that his home, Winterfell, has been put to the torch by the Iron Islanders. Furthermore, Bran and Rickon were not found among the ruins of Winterfell. He informs his mother, Lady Catelyn, of this news, and they depart for Riverrun, her childhood home, for her father's funeral. While on the road, Lord Rickard Karstark voices his displeasure with the funeral distraction. Later, Catelyn discusses her children with Queen Talisa, recalling how she had prayed for Jon Snow to die when he was first brought to Winterfell. After Jon fell gravely ill, Catelyn promised to love him and prayed to the gods for his recovery, promising to persuade Ned Stark to legitimize the bastard boy, though in the end she couldn't bring herself to do so. She admits that she feels responsible for what is happening to all of them.

Traveling north, Arya Stark, Gendry, and Hot Pie are discovered by a small party led by Thoros of Myr, who suspects them of having escaped Harrenhal. He tells them that he and his men fight for the Brotherhood without Banners, and takes them to an inn to eat. Once finished, Arya, Gendry, and Hot Pie are leaving when another group of Brotherhood soldiers enter with a captive Sandor "The Hound" Clegane, who recognizes Arya and reveals her true identity to Thoros and his men.

Brienne of Tarth continues to transport Ser Jaime Lannister to King's Landing, hoping to trade him for Sansa and Arya. While traveling, they encounter a farmer who warns them of the danger in traveling the Kingsroad. Jaime warns Brienne that the farmer might give their presence away and must be killed, but Brienne refuses. Later when they are crossing a bridge, Jaime seizes an opportunity to take one of Brienne's swords, but in the ensuing fight she gains the upper hand. Before their fight can be concluded, they are taken captive by Locke, a bannerman of Lord Roose Bolton, aided by the farmer, who had recognized Jaime from a joust he had attended. 
