In the Dothraki Sea

On their way to Vaes Dothrak with Drogo's khalasar, Jorah Mormont reveals to Viserys that he was exiled for selling poachers to slavers. Viserys assures Jorah that he would not have been punished if Viserys had been the king and demonstrates impatience for Drogo to lend Viserys his army.

Daenerys has difficulty adjusting to her new marriage and the nomadic lifestyle of her adopted people. Her only comfort is the three petrified dragon eggs given to her by Illyrio. She is visibly distraught and in pain during intimate relations with the Khal. In order to feel more in control of her marital life, she asks one of her handmaidens, former courtesan Doreah, to teach her how to please her new husband.
In the North

Bran has been in a coma for more than a month since being thrown from the tower by Jaime Lannister. After slapping his nephew Prince Joffrey for refusing to give his condolences to the Starks, Tyrion Lannister informs his siblings that despite Bran's fall, the boy will survive, much to the dismay of the incestuous Lannister twins.

It is time for farewells, with the Stark family having to split apart. Ned's two daughters journey with their father to the capital. JonSnow journeys to join his uncle Benjen as a man of the Night's Watch at the Wall. Tyrion, who wants to see the "edge of the world", accompanies them. Before leaving, Jon gives a sword to his sister Arya as a present. Lady Catelyn Stark is devastated by her husband's imminent departure and has stood vigil beside her son Bran since his fall. Having always deeply resented Jon, Catelyn asks him to leave when he comes to say goodbye to Bran and then chastises her husband Ned for leaving her and giving in to the demands of King Robert. Before they part, Jon asks Ned about his mother, and Ned promises to tell Jon about her the next time they meet. While stopping for a meal, Robert tells Ned that he has received word about Daenerys Targaryen's wedding to Khal Drogo and voices concern about the possibility of Viserys crossing the Narrow Sea with a Dothraki army to overthrow him with help from those in the Seven Kingdoms who still support the Targaryens' claim to the throne and think of Robert as a usurper.

Late one night after Ned's departure, a fire breaks out at Winterfell, and during the ensuing chaos, a hired assassin tries to kill Bran. Catelyn holds off the attacker long enough for Bran's direwolf to jump in and tear out the assassin's throat. The murder attempt arouses Catelyn's suspicions, and after finding a strand of long blonde hair in the abandoned tower where Bran fell, she concludes that the Lannisters are somehow involved. After confiding with her most trusted advisers - her son Robb, Maester Luwin, Master-at-Arms Ser Rodrik Cassel and the Starks' ward Theon Greyjoy - she decides to go to King's Landing in secret with Rodrik as her escort to warn her husband.
At the Wall

Jon and Tyrion see the Wall for the first time as they arrive with Benjen and the other recruits. En route to the Wall, Tyrion and Jon discuss the Night's Watch. Tyrion is quick to disabuse Jon of his romantic notions of the Watch as a noble calling battling the mythical horrors beyond the Wall (as it was in history), pointing out that now it is more a dumping ground for the unwanted of Westeros: criminals, prisoners, and bastards.
At the Inn at the Crossroads

On their way to King's Landing, the king's entourage has stopped to rest at an inn. While the recently promised Prince Joffrey and Sansa Stark are walking along the river, they run into Arya sparring with sticks with her friend, a butcher's boy named Mycah. Taunting the boy, Joffrey draws his sword and demands a duel, under pretext of punishing him for accidentally hitting Arya, a member of the nobility. Mycah and Arya desperately explain that she asked him to spar with her so she could practice. As Joffrey savors the butcher boy's pain and fear, Arya hits Joffrey while her friend flees. Enraged, Joffrey turns on Arya and is about to strike her with his sword when her direwolf Nymeria bites his wrist. Arya seizes his sword and throws it into the river before running into the forest, where she drives away Nymeria and hides until dark.

Afterward, Joffrey lies to the courtly entourage and accuses Arya and her direwolf of ganging up on him. Unwilling to lose favor with her betrothed by publicly exposing his lie, Sansa claims she remembers nothing. Sick of the petty bickering, King Robert chastises his son for allowing himself to be disarmed by the younger girl and declares that the fathers themselves will punish their respective children, dismissing the audience. However, Robert gives in to his wife Cersei's demands and orders the direwolf killed. Since Nymeria has fled, Sansa's wolf, Lady, is to be sacrificed. Unable to convince the king otherwise, Eddard takes responsibility for killing Sansa's pet himself. As he walks to the back of the inn, he encounters Joffrey's bodyguard, Sandor "The Hound" Clegane, who has ridden down the butcher's boy and brought in his bloody corpse for the prince.

Eddard approaches Lady and holds her down as he unsheathes a blade. Saddened, he kills the direwolf, who utters a sharp cry of pain. Meanwhile, up North, Bran suddenly awakens from his coma and opens his eyes.
