In the North

At Winterfell, Ramsay Bolton mourns the death of Myranda, but commands that her corpse be fed to the hounds. Roose Bolton warns him that, despite their victory, they could be facing the wrath of the Lannisters in the future, and as such, they must secure the loyalty of the North's other nobles. Roose blames Ramsay for losing Sansa Stark, who, as a child of Eddard Stark, could have been used as a figure-head for the North. As such, Roose implies that he will disinherit Ramsay if he cannot retrieve her and his unborn child is a son.

Meanwhile, Sansa and Theon Greyjoy flee through the nearby forests. Upon being cornered by a squad of Bolton soldiers, they are rescued by Brienne of Tarth and Podrick Payne, who attack and kill the soldiers. Brienne again offers to pledge her loyalty to Sansa, who accepts.
In Dorne

Doran Martell receives news of Myrcella's death and is aghast, but he and Areo Hotah are immediately murdered by Ellaria Sand and Tyene Sand, while the palace guards look on without intervening. Ellaria states that his people have become dissatisfied with Doran's inaction against the Lannisters. As Doran dies, he pleads for his son's life, but Ellaria vows that weak men will never rule Dorne again.
In King's Landing

Jaime Lannister arrives in King's Landing bearing Myrcella's body, and returns to his sister Cersei Lannister. Cersei recounts the prophecy which Maggy the Frog told her as a child, when she was told all her children would die before her and she would be left with nothing. Jaime promises that they will have revenge against all who have wronged the Lannisters, heightening the importance of his and Cersei's staying close.

Across the city, Margaery Tyrell, who is still held captive by the Faith Militant, converses with the High Sparrow, but he refuses to give her information about her brother Loras.

In his ship still docked in the harbor, Doran's son Trystane is painting stones for Myrcella's funeral. Obara and Nymeria Sand board his ship and enter his cabin, stating their intent to kill him. Despite proclaiming that he does not want to fight his family, he attempts to defend himself from Nymeria but is stabbed through the back of the head by Obara, killing him instantly.
In Meereen

Tyrion Lannister and Varys walk through the streets, which are largely empty because of Daenerys's absence and fear of the Sons of the Harpy. Tyrion observes that Daenerys' enemies are growing, including former slaves and former masters. Varys promises that his spies will find the leader of the Sons of the Harpy. The two discover that someone has set fire to all of the ships in Meereen's harbor, and Tyrion realizes that Daenerys's forces will be unable to sail to Westeros.
In the Dothraki Sea

Daario Naharis and Jorah Mormont continue to trace Daenerys Targaryen's location. Jorah takes a moment to observe his worsening greyscale. They discover her ring in the middle of thousands of hoof-prints, deducing that she has been taken by the Dothraki.

Daenerys is presented to Khal Moro, who has taken her prisoner. Moro initially wishes to rape her, but treats her with respect after Daenerys explains that she was Khal Drogo's wife. Daenerys asks Moro to escort her back to Meereen, but he refuses to let her leave, as widows of Khals must live out their lives in Vaes Dothrak, the Dothraki's sacred city.
In Braavos

Arya Stark, now blinded, is sent to beg on the streets. The Waif suddenly appears and forces Arya to duel her using a wooden staff. Arya fails because of her blindness, and the Waif promises that she will return the following day.
At the Wall

Following the murder of Jon Snow, his dire-wolf Ghost begins to howl as the sun rises above Castle Black, attracting the attention of Davos Seaworth, Eddison Tollett, and a few other loyalists. They release Ghost from his nearby pen and take Jon's body into a store-room, whereupon Melisandre briefly visits and is troubled, as she had experienced a vision in the flames where Jon was fighting at Winterfell. The loyalists become fearful and also lock themselves in from the mutineers, with the exception of Edd, who sneaks out of Castle Black to get assistance from the Wildlings against the mutineers.

Ser Alliser Thorne convenes the other black brothers and takes responsibility for Jon's murder. Several black brothers accuse Thorne and the other officers of treason, but Thorne wins them over by citing Jon's actions and stating that Jon would have destroyed the Night's Watch by letting in the Wildlings. Alliser and the other mutineers then surround the store-room and promise Davos and Jon's friends amnesty if they surrender, but threaten to attack if they don't open the door by nightfall.

Elsewhere, Melisandre, who has been sullen following Stannis's defeat and Jon's death, goes to sleep in her bedroom. As she undresses, she removes her ruby necklace to reveal a physical body many years older than she appears to be. 
