In Braavos

Stannis and Davos arrive in Braavos, where they are received by Tycho Nestoris at the Iron Bank. Tycho declines Stannis's request for financial aid, naming his lack of a large army or the food necessary to sustain them as his reasons. Before leaving, Davos makes an impassioned speech about Stannis's merits, pointing out his being a man of action, his prime age, and his ability on battlefield, while also pointing out Tywin Lannister's age and his weak potential successors. Davos is successful in winning over Tycho, and is granted the funds he needs. He later informs the pirate Salladhor Saan that Stannis finally has the money Salladhor was promised in exchange for Salladhor's service, and that they will set sail together the next day.
In Meereen

Near Meereen, one of Daenerys's dragons, Drogon, attacks a group of goats led by a farmer and his son. While she receives supplicants, the farmer presents a bag of charred goat bones to Daenerys and her advisors, and she promises to pay him three times their worth. After he departs, Hizdahr zo Loraq requests the right to bury the remains of his father, who was one of the Meereenese masters crucified on Daenerys's orders. Loraq also points out that his father was one of the masters who was against the crucifixion of the slave children, but was killed due to Daenerys's "justice". Daenerys reluctantly grants his request.
At the Dreadfort

Yara Greyjoy leads her Ironborn soldiers in a raid on the Dreadfort to rescue Theon. Yara finds Theon locked in the kennels with the dogs but he is reluctant to accept her help, believing she has been sent by Ramsay Snow to trick him. He also refuses to acknowledge his true name, instead telling Yara that he is Reek. Before they can flee, Ramsay and his men corner the Ironborn and afterwards release his hounds on the invaders. Upon returning to their rowboats, Yara tells her men that Theon is dead. In the morning, Ramsay rewards Reek with a bath. Ramsay tells Reek that he requires his assistance in taking Moat Cailin, and that, in order to comply with his father's command, he will need Reek to play the role of "someone [he is] not": Theon Greyjoy.
In King's Landing

At a meeting of the Small Council, Tywin announces that Tyrion's trial will begin that afternoon. Lord Varys informs Tywin that Sandor "The Hound" Clegane has been spotted in the Riverlands, and Tywin orders a bounty on his head. Varys also informs the council of Daenerys' conquest of Meereen, and Tywin decides to take measures to prevent her from launching an invasion.

In the dungeon, Jaime reluctantly has Tyrion shackled and brought into the throne room by order of Tywin, to begin his trial for regicide. King Tommen recuses himself from the trial, appointing his grandfather Tywin, Prince Oberyn Martell, and Lord Mace Tyrell as judges. Several witnesses are called for the prosecution, including Ser Meryn Trant, Grand Maester Pycelle, Queen Regent Cersei, and Varys, all of whom give testimony backing the accusations against Tyrion, with wildly varying degrees of truthfulness, but all conveniently omitting Joffrey's actions. At recess, Jaime asks Tywin to spare Tyrion, offering to leave the Kingsguard and return to Casterly Rock, to be Tywin's heir. Tywin accepts immediately, telling Jaime that Tyrion will be allowed to join the Night's Watch after being found guilty of Joffrey's murder, provided he pleads for mercy.

Returning to the trial, Tywin orders the next witness to testify: Shae. She falsely testifies that Tyrion and Sansa planned Joffrey's murder together, claiming that Sansa wanted vengeance for the murder of her father, mother, and brother. She tells the judges of Tyrion's sexual desires, embarrassing him in front of the court. Before she can continue, Tyrion's anger finally boils over, and he announces that he wishes to "confess". He first lashes out at the people of King's Landing in attendance for their ingratitude after he had saved them from Stannis Baratheon's attack on Blackwater Bay, declaring he should have simply allowed Stannis to kill them all. Facing Tywin and Cersei, Tyrion denies having killed Joffrey, but admits that he wishes he had, and accuses his father of putting him on trial because of his dwarfism. He finishes by saying that he refuses to be sentenced for a crime he did not commit and that the gods will decide his fate, demanding a trial by combat. 
