In Braavos

Arya Stark continues her training with the Faceless Men, washing the bodies of those that die in the temple. She asks the Waif what they do with the bodies after they're clean, but the Waif tells her that she is not yet ready to know. Arya then asks how to pass the Game of Faces. The Waif hints that in order to pass, she must be able to convincingly lie. When Jaqen H'ghar comes to test Arya again, she tells him how she came to join the Faceless Men, but lies about several key facts. Jaqen is able to tell when Arya is lying, including when Arya claims that she hated Sandor Clegane. Jaqen tells Arya that she is lying not only to him, but to herself.

Some time later, a man brings his sick daughter to the temple so that she can die in peace. Arya talks to the sickly girl and lies about how she was ill like her in the past. Arya then gives the girl the temple's poisoned water to end her suffering. After she cleans the body, Arya is taken by Jaqen to a chamber underneath the temple, where the Faceless Men store the faces of all the people that have died in the temple. Jaqen tells Arya that she is not yet ready to become "no one", but she is ready to become "someone else".
In Dorne

Trystane Martell and Myrcella Baratheon walk through the Water Gardens, and make plans to marry one another, much to the concern of Trystane's father, Prince Doran. Meanwhile, Jaime Lannister and Bronn disguise themselves as Dornish guards and infiltrate the gardens. Bronn knocks out Trystane and Jaime moves to take Myrcella but they are ambushed by the Sand Snakes: Obara, Nymeria, and Tyene. Jaime and Bronn battle with them briefly before more Dornish guards, led by Areo Hotah, arrive and arrest both groups. Ellaria Sand is also arrested for orchestrating the planned kidnapping.
On the Valyrian peninsula

Jorah Mormont and Tyrion Lannister continue to make their way to Meereen on foot. Tyrion tells Jorah how he is on the run from Westeros after killing his father Tywin, and also tells Jorah how his father, Jeor Mormont, was killed by Night's Watch mutineers during an expedition north of the Wall. Shortly afterwards, they are captured by slavers, who plan to take the pair to Volantis for sale. After the leader of the slavers, Malko, mentions that Daenerys Targaryen has reopened the fighting pits in Meereen, Tyrion convinces the slavers to take them to Meereen instead, saying that Jorah is an accomplished warrior and can earn the slavers more money in the pits.
In King's Landing

Petyr Baelish returns to King's Landing at Cersei Lannister's request, where he is confronted by Brother Lancel and a group of Sparrows. Lancel warns Petyr that the Sparrows have purged King's Landing of all vices, and they will not tolerate his prostitution business, though Petyr is unperturbed. Petyr then meets with Cersei, who has started to question where his loyalties lie. He assures her that he is loyal to the throne, and informs her that Sansa is alive in Winterfell and is set to marry Ramsay Bolton. Cersei is infuriated at the Boltons' apparent treachery, but Petyr convinces her that he has already set up a plan to deal with the situation. He informs her of Stannis Baratheon's impending attack on the Boltons and asks to lead the knights of the Vale to Winterfell to destroy whatever is left of the victor. In return, he asks to be named Warden of the North, a condition Cersei agrees to.

Olenna Tyrell arrives in King's Landing in an effort to free Loras Tyrell from the Sparrows' custody. She warns Cersei that her actions have put the Lannister-Tyrell alliance in peril, though Cersei insists that she had nothing to do with Loras' confinement and expresses confidence that there will not be enough evidence to convict him. At Loras' holy inquest, the High Sparrow interrogates both Loras and Margaery Tyrell, and they both deny that Loras is homosexual. Olyvar is then brought in and testifies against Loras, citing a unique birthmark that Loras has, and also noting that Margaery had seen them in bed together. After Loras, enraged, attempts to attack Olyvar, the High Sparrow is convinced that there is enough evidence to proceed with Loras' trial. He also orders Margaery arrested for lying during the holy inquest. As Margaery is taken away by the Faith Militant, she calls for Tommen Baratheon to do something about it, but he is too intimidated by the presence of the Faith Militant to respond.
In Winterfell
While Myranda bathes Sansa Stark, she attempts to intimidate her by telling her about Ramsay's former mistresses, whom Ramsay later hunted and killed with his dogs. Sansa boldly replies that she is not frightened. Later, Reek arrives to take Sansa to the Godswood, where she is then married to Ramsay. Afterward, Ramsay takes her to his chambers and orders her to undress. When Reek tries to leave, Ramsay orders him to stay and watch, and proceeds to rape Sansa, to Reek's horror. 
