On Dragonstone

Jon Snow and Davos Seaworth arrive at Dragonstone with their soldiers. Tyrion Lannister and Missandei meet them and take their weapons and boat. Daenerys Targaryen offers to make Jon Warden of the North if he bends the knee, but he refuses. They agree Daenerys is not responsible for her father's crimes, but Daenerys denies Jon's assertion he should not be held by his ancestor's oath to hers. Jon explains the threat of White Walkers and wights, but Daenerys wants to claim the Iron Throne before considering other threats. Jon barely stops Davos from revealing Jon's resurrection while endorsing him. Daenerys cuts the meeting short to receive news from Varys that Euron has defeated Yara. Jon is forced to remain at Dragonstone, a prisoner in all but name. Tyrion discourages Daenerys's desire to burn Euron's ships with her dragons, which would require her to accompany them.

Varys asks Melisandre why she hides from Jon; she admits they parted on bad terms due to her mistakes. She plans to return to Volantis, and Varys urges her to stay overseas forever, but she predicts that both of them will die in Westeros.

Speaking with Jon in private, Tyrion concedes that Jon's willingness to meet with Daenerys has convinced him that the White Walkers are real. Tyrion explains that Daenerys' followers are loyal because Daenerys dedicates herself to protecting others from threats she understands, and asks if Jon has any request for assistance that Daenerys would find reasonable. Tyrion relays Jon's request to mine obsidian on Dragonstone; Daenerys accepts Tyrion's recommendation to agree as a gesture of goodwill, although she also wonders aloud what Davos almost divulged. Daenerys later meets with Jon privately and informs him of her decision.
In the Narrow Sea

One of the few remaining ships of Yara Greyjoy's fleet fish Theon Greyjoy aboard. The Ironborn disbelieve his claim that he tried to rescue Yara from Euron.
In King's Landing

Euron Greyjoy parades his captives Ellaria Sand, Tyene Sand, and Yara Greyjoy through abusive crowds in the streets of King's Landing. He presents the Sands as his gift to Cersei Lannister, who accepts his military alliance and promises marriage when the war is won. In a dungeon, Cersei kisses Tyene with the same poison Ellaria used to kill Myrcella, and tells Ellaria she will be kept alive to watch her daughter die and decompose. Cersei has sex with Jaime and, reveling in her authority, flaunts their intimacy in view of the servants. Tycho Nestoris of the Iron Bank comes to collect repayment of the Lannisters' loans. Cersei denigrates Daenerys as a possible investment, and secures a fortnight to pay the debt.
At Winterfell

Sansa Stark competently manages Winterfell, preparing it as an emergency refuge for all Northerners. Littlefinger counsels Sansa to "fight every battle" mentally, and thus never be unprepared. Bran Stark and Meera Reed arrive, and Sansa is reunited with her brother. In the Godswood, Sansa is confused by Bran's revelation that he is the Three-Eyed Raven, and troubled by his specific knowledge of her suffering ("Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken").
In Oldtown

Archmaester Ebrose proclaims that Jorah Mormont is healed of greyscale and releases him. Jorah plans to return to Daenerys. Samwell Tarly admits that he administered the forbidden treatment; Ebrose praises his skill, but punishes his disobedience with an assignment to copy a large number of old documents.
At Casterly Rock

The Unsullied infiltrate Casterly Rock via its sewers, which Tyrion designed. They capture the castle, finding far fewer defenders than expected. The Iron Fleet arrives and destroys Daenerys' ships, stranding Grey Worm and his army.
At Highgarden
Jaime Lannister, Randyll Tarly, and their armies take Highgarden, having abandoned Casterly Rock to trick Daenerys into committing her Unsullied forces to a strategically useless position. Jaime grants Olenna Tyrell the mercy of a quick and painless death by poison, over Cersei's original plans to execute her. After drinking poisoned wine, Olenna confesses to murdering Joffrey and asks Jaime to tell Cersei. Incensed, Jaime leaves Olenna to die alone. 
