As they keep watch for the coming invasion, Jon and Samwell walk on the top of the Wall, and talk about Jon's relationship with Ygritte during his time with the wildlings. At a nearby camp, the Thenn Warg scouts the wall using an owl, while Ygritte tells the group that Jon is hers alone to kill. In the library of Castle Black, Sam and Maester Aemon discuss Gilly, who soon after arrives at Castle Black, having been spared by Ygritte during the raid of Mole's Town. Their reunion is cut short by horn blasts signaling that Mance Rayder's army has arrived. Jon, looking out over the north side of the Wall, sees a massive fire burning, and he and his brothers complete the preparations for battle. Sam finds Gilly and her baby shelter in the kitchen, and then leaves to aid in the defense after kissing her good-bye.

Ygritte, having scouted the entrance of Castle Black, reports that it is undermanned, and Styr orders the group to attack. As Ser Alliser orders the archers to nock, another horn blast informs him that the castle is being attacked from both sides. Alliser leaves charge of the Wall to Janos Slynt, and heads for the castle to battle with the Thenns. On top of the Wall, Janos Slynt proves to be inept as a commander, so Grenn tricks him to go down to the castle, leaving Jon in charge. Several giants and a woolly mammoth attempt to pull up the large gate at the base of the Wall, and Jon sends Grenn with five men to defend the passage. At the castle, Ser Alliser is wounded by Tormund Giantsbane and is taken to be treated. Sam and Pyp use crossbows to shoot at the wildlings, but Pyp is shot through the neck by Ygritte. Sam then ascends the Wall, killing the Thenn Warg while he runs through the courtyard. Upon arriving at the top, Sam informs Jon that the courtyard is overrun, and Jon leaves charge of the Wall to Edd.

Returning to the south side of Castle Black, Jon leads the remaining Night's Watch brothers, along with his direwolf, Ghost. Jon battles with Styr, and after taking a severe beating, is able to kill the Thenn. Ygritte confronts him but hesitates with her arrow, as they both smile at each other. Her pause allows Olly to shoot her in the back, and as they reminisce on how they should have stayed in the cave together, she dies in Jon's arms. Atop the Wall, Edd leads a successful defense, with the wildling army appearing to withdraw for the time. Tormund, having been hit by several arrows, is captured on Jon's orders.

In the morning, Jon tells Sam that he will go north of the Wall, and attempt to kill Mance. As they walk through the passage, they find that Grenn and his men died killing a giant, and Jon tells Sam to have their bodies burned. Jon gives his sword, Longclaw, to Sam before departing the passage. 
