In King's Landing

With their wedding hours away, Tyrion Lannister visits Sansa Stark to ease her apprehension at the prospect of being his wife. In the Sept of Baelor, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister threatens Margaery Tyrell with the story of House Reyne, former Lannister vassals whom her father Tywin exterminated when they rebelled against their liege lord. After arriving at the Sept, Sansa is walked down the aisle by King Joffrey Baratheon. In an effort to embarrass Tyrion, Joffrey removes the stepstool Tyrion was to use to cloak Sansa with the Lannister colors. After some snickering from the crowd, Tyrion gets Sansa to kneel, and they are married.

At their wedding feast, Tyrion gets very drunk, irritating both Sansa and Tywin, who counsels his son to stop drinking and begin trying to conceive a child with his new wife. Joffrey, after threatening to rape Sansa, calls for the traditional bedding ceremony to begin, but his plan is thwarted when Tyrion threatens to castrate an outraged Joffrey. Tywin defuses the situation, and Tyrion is able to avoid punishment, using his intoxication as an excuse. Tyrion leaves the feast with Sansa, and though Tywin has ordered Tyrion to consummate his marriage, he tells Sansa he will not share her bed until she wants him to. Sansa asks what Tyrion will do if that never happens, and Tyrion jokes by saying a phrase from the Night's Watch vow, "And so my watch begins", meaning that he is resigned to never having sex within their marriage.
At Dragonstone

Melisandre returns to Dragonstone with Gendry. She then takes him to see King Stannis Baratheon, who recognizes Gendry as one of Robert's bastards. When Gendry is taken to his chamber, Stannis and Melisandre discuss what they intend to do with him.

In the dungeons, Davos Seaworth continues to learn to read. Stannis visits him to discuss Melisandre's plan to sacrifice Gendry. Davos objects to the plan, seeing Gendry as a nephew to Stannis, but Stannis remains resolved. He then makes Davos swear to never raise his hand to Melisandre again, and frees him.

Later, Melisandre visits Gendry and seduces him, tying him to a bed in the process. Having earlier stated that there is "power" in Gendry's kingly blood, she lays three leeches on him to draw his blood. Stannis enters and ritually burns the leeches, speaking the names of the usurpers to his throne: Robb Stark, Balon Greyjoy, and Joffrey Baratheon.
In the Riverlands

Arya tries to kill Sandor "the Hound" Clegane while he is sleeping, but he is revealed to be awake, and thwarts her attempt on his life. They depart their camp and head for the Twins, where Clegane intends to ransom Arya to her brother Robb.
At Yunkai

Ser Jorah Mormont tells Daenerys Targaryen that Yunkai has employed a mercenary group called the Second Sons, which is led by an extremely vulgar man named Mero. Daenerys soon meets with Mero, his co-captain Prendahl na Ghezn and his lieutenant Daario Naharis. She attempts to bribe Mero to renege on his deal with Yunkai and fight for her, and gives him two days to make a decision. In the Second Sons' camp, the three leaders plot to kill Daenerys that night, with one of them sneaking into her camp. By random draw, Daario is selected to carry out their plot.

After nightfall, Daario enters Daenerys's camp, disguised as an Unsullied soldier. He enters her tent and shows her and Missandei the severed heads of Mero and Prendahl, admitting that he is smitten by Daenerys and killed his superiors after disagreeing with the plot to kill her. Daario then kneels and pledges himself and the Second Sons to her cause.
Beyond the Wall
Samwell Tarly and Gilly continue their journey to the Wall. They stop at an abandoned hut for the night and discuss a name for her son. When they hear a murder of crows cawing nearby, Sam leaves the hut to investigate. Soon after, he is attacked by a White Walker, which shatters Sam's sword with a single touch and tosses him aside. The Walker moves towards Gilly, intent on taking her son, but Sam stabs it with his dragonglass dagger, causing the Walker to disintegrate. Sam and Gilly then flee into the night. 
