In the North

Brienne and Podrick arrive at an inn not far from Winterfell. When their conversation is interrupted by a servant, Brienne speaks to him and determines he is still loyal to the Starks. She arranges for a message to be delivered to Sansa that if she is ever in trouble, she should light a candle in Winterfell's highest tower, and help will arrive.

In Winterfell, Ramsay has a tense conversation with Myranda regarding her jealousy of Sansa and their impending marriage. Later, Myranda speaks with Sansa, and shows her to the kennels where Reek, formerly Theon Greyjoy, lives. At dinner, Ramsay forces Reek to apologize to Sansa for murdering Bran and Rickon, despite being aware that Reek did not kill them. Annoyed by Ramsay's petty cruelty, Roose announces that he and Walda are expecting a child. Ramsay feels his claim as Roose's heir is threatened, but Roose later reassures him and asks for his support resisting King Stannis Baratheon's impending attack on Winterfell.
At the Wall

News of the events in Meereen reach Sam and Maester Aemon. Aemon laments that he is Daenerys's only remaining relative, and that he is too old and sickly to help her. Jon arrives and speaks privately to Aemon, asking his advice with regards to gaining the wildlings as allies. Aemon tells Jon that he must "kill the boy and let the man be born," indicating that as Lord Commander, Jon must do what he feels is right.

Afterward, Jon meets with Tormund Giantsbane and frees him. He offers to allow the wildlings to settle south of the wall, in return for an alliance with the Night's Watch. Tormund tells Jon that most of the wildlings have made their way to a settlement called Hardhome, and that in order to unite them and forge an alliance, Jon must accompany him to speak with them himself. When Jon presents his plan to his men, they reject it, citing the numerous brothers and innocents killed by the wildlings, including Jon's friends Grenn and Pyp, and Olly's entire village. Regardless, Jon decides to go forward with the plan.

In the library, Sam tells Gilly about how he had always wanted to become a Maester before joining the Night's Watch. Stannis then enters and asks Sam about dragonglass, which is capable of killing White Walkers. He mentions that Dragonstone has large supplies of dragonglass, and that Sam should continue researching the White Walkers' weaknesses. Later, Stannis tells Ser Davos that they will march toward Winterfell in the morning. Davos suggests waiting for Jon to come back with the wildlings, but Stannis wishes to march before winter arrives. He also decides to have Selyse and Shireen march with them, since he does not feel they will be safe at the Wall.
In Meereen

Though badly wounded in the battle with the Sons of the Harpy, Grey Worm has survived, and rests under the watchful eye of Missandei. However, Ser Barristan Selmy has succumbed to his wounds. Daenerys and Daario mourn Barristan in the Great Pyramid, and Daenerys orders the leaders of the great families of Meereen to be brought before her, including Hizdahr zo Loraq. She has her dragons Viserion and Rhaegal burn and eat one of the leaders, and imprisons the others. Three days later, Grey Worm awakens and tells Missandei how he felt fear that he would never see her again; the two share a passionate kiss. Later, Daenerys consults Missandei on how to deal with the Sons of the Harpy, and Missandei points out that Daenerys has always had the ability to find solutions that nobody else could see. Inspired by Missandei's words, Daenerys meets with Hizdahr in his cell, and informs him that she will reopen the fighting pits, and that in order to make peace with the people of Meereen, she will marry him.
In Valyria
Tyrion deduces that Jorah is taking a shortcut through the ruins of Valyria. They see Drogon fly overhead before they are attacked by a group of stone men, victims of the leprosy-like disease greyscale, who have been turned feral by the disease. Tyrion is forced overboard but is saved from drowning by Jorah, and the two set camp on a small sandbar. Jorah leaves to gather firewood, and checking his wrist, finds the beginnings of a greyscale lesion. 
