At Winterfell

Theon Greyjoy has taken Winterfell following his prior gambit at Torrhen's Square. Declaring himself prince and Lord of Winterfell, Theon convinces the current lord, Bran Stark, to yield after promising not to harm the castle's inhabitants. However, when Ser Rodrik Cassel is captured outside of Winterfell and brought to Theon, the knight contemptuously spits on him. Theon moves first to imprison Ser Rodrik, but Dagmer Cleftjaw insists that Theon need personally execute Ser Rodrik, making him to pay "the iron price." Theon hesitates, but ultimately does so, despite the urgings of Bran and others at Winterfell. Theon is unable to execute Ser Rodrik with one blow, and has to repeatedly hack at him to decapitate him. Later, the wildling servant Osha seduces Theon, offering herself in exchange for her freedom; unbeknownst to Theon, Osha's seduction is a ruse to allow her and Hodor to spirit Bran and Rickon safely out of Winterfell.
In the Westerlands

Robb Stark again encounters the field nurse Talisa. As they talk flirtatiously with one another, Catelyn Stark arrives at the camp. Discovering that the nurse is Lady Talisa Maegyr from the Free City of Volantis, and sensing Robb's attraction to her, Catelyn firmly reminds her son that he is not at liberty to pursue romance: in return for Lord Walder Frey allowing the Stark armies to cross the Twins, he has promised to marry one of Frey's daughters. The Starks then receive the news of Theon Greyjoy's betrayal and the execution of Ser Rodrik. Furious, Robb declares that he will recapture Winterfell, but Lord Roose Bolton advises Robb that if he marches back to the North now, he will lose what he has gained against the Lannisters. Bolton proposes sending his bastard son with the forces he has left at his stronghold, the Dreadfort, to end the Ironborn occupation of Winterfell. Robb reluctantly agrees, but demands that Theon be captured alive so that Robb may understand Theon's treachery before he personally executes him.
Beyond the Wall

The Night's Watch expedition, led by Qhorin Halfhand, reaches and captures a wildling watchpost. The wildlings are all killed, aside from Ygritte, a single female prisoner captured by Jon Snow. After Ygritte boasts of the growing wildling army, Jon offers to execute the prisoner before rejoining the rest of the group. However, Jon finds himself unable to kill Ygritte, and his resulting hesitation allows her to escape. Jon is able to recapture Ygritte, but now finds himself separated from the main party. With night fast approaching, Jon is forced to sleep in the open. He refuses to make any fires, but is convinced by Ygritte to huddle next to her in order to share body warmth.
In King's Landing

Myrcella Baratheon is sent to Dorne as part of her arranged marriage alliance with House Martell, with the royal entourage going to the harbour to bid her farewell. While the royal entourage is returning to the Red Keep, unrest in the royal city reaches a breaking point: King Joffrey Baratheon is struck in the face with manure hurled by the crowd, and he reacts by ordering his guards to kill everyone in the crowd. A riot ensues and the royal family is forced to flee for safety. Tyrion Lannister slaps Joffrey for his foolishness and tries to take control of the situation, but the Kingsguard refuse to obey him. Trapped outside, Sansa Stark is nearly gang-raped by several men before being rescued by Sandor "The Hound" Clegane.
At Harrenhal

Lord Tywin Lannister grows increasingly exasperated at the incompetence of his advisors and men-at-arms, who have let sensitive military information slip into the hands of Stark loyalists by confusing addressees. Tywin observes that his cupbearer Arya Stark can read better than many of his knights, something he finds unusual because Arya later tells him her father was a stonemason. Arya's effort to conceal her true identity is further endangered when Petyr Baelish unexpectedly arrives at Tywin's chambers for a meeting. Forced to wait at the table and serve wine, Arya tries to conceal her face from Baelish. Although he notices the cupbearer after she nervously spills his wine, it is unclear as to whether he recognises her as Arya. Later, one of Tywin's knights, Ser Amory Lorch, catches Arya with a stolen parchment detailing war orders concerning her brother Robb. She manages to escape him, then finds the assassin Jaqen H'ghar, who is still masquerading as a Lannister guardsman. She implores him to kill Ser Amory without delay to repay the second of the three "lives" he owes her. As Ser Amory enters Tywin's chambers to expose Arya, he drops dead with a poisoned dart lodged in his neck.
In Qarth
Daenerys Targaryen meets with the Spice King, one of Qarth's ruling Thirteen. Daenerys's entreaties to the Spice King for ships are rebuffed as he is not moved by her passion alone, but rather tangible promises. Later, returning with her host Xaro, Daenerys and her entourage suddenly discover the dead bodies of Qartheen guards and her own khalasar strewn around Xaro's mansion. The trail of bodies leads to her antechamber, where she sees that her handmaiden Irri has been killed and her dragons have been stolen. The dragons are then seen being ferried to a tower by a mysterious hooded figure. 
