At the Wall

Jon Snow, having just resigned from the Night's Watch, is disillusioned by the betrayal of his fellow Night's Watchmen and tired of all of the endless fighting. Jon states his intent to head south, but Edd is unhappy with Jon's decision after seeing what had happened at Hardhome. They are interrupted by the lookout's horn as Sansa Stark, Brienne of Tarth, and Podrick Payne arrive at Castle Black and Sansa is reunited with Jon. After telling each other their stories, Sansa tries to convince Jon to help her retake Winterfell. However, Jon is still reluctant to fight. Frustrated, Sansa declares to Jon that she will take back Winterfell whether he helps her or not.

Meanwhile, Brienne confronts Davos Seaworth and Melisandre, and informs them that she killed Stannis after he admitted to using dark magic to assassinate Renly. She warns Davos and Melisandre that even though that was in the past, she does not forget or forgive.

Some time later, a letter from Ramsay to Jon arrives. Ramsay boasts that he has Rickon in his custody. He demands Sansa's return, threatening to have the Bolton army exterminate the wildlings, kill Rickon and gang-rape Sansa while forcing Jon to watch before they kill him. Angered, Sansa decides to fight to take back Winterfell from the Boltons, and Jon agrees. When Tormund warns him that the wildlings don't have the numbers to battle Ramsay's army, Sansa points out that Jon can use his status as the son of the "last true Warden of the North" to unite the various Northern houses and take Ramsay down.
At Runestone

Littlefinger arrives at Runestone in the Vale, with a pet falcon for his stepson, Lord of the Eyrie, Robin Arryn. When Lord of Runestone Yohn Royce asks how Sansa became married to Ramsay Bolton instead of at the Fingers, Littlefinger claims Bolton's men attacked them and kidnapped her on the way. When Royce is dubious, Littlefinger adds that he was the only person who knew of their destination, implying his guilt. He manipulates Arryn into considering executing Royce, then into giving him a second chance after he pledges his absolute loyalty. Littlefinger then tells Arryn that Sansa, his cousin, has escaped the Boltons and is taking refuge at Castle Black, but that she is still not safe. Arryn agrees to command Royce to lead the knights of the Vale to protect her.
In Meereen

Despite Grey Worm and Missandei's objections, Tyrion Lannister arranges a diplomatic meeting with the masters of Astapor, Yunkai and Volantis. He proposes a deal allowing the cities seven years to transition away from slavery, while compensating the masters for any losses. In return, the masters will cease their support of the Sons of the Harpy. As the masters deliberate, Tyrion is confronted by the former slaves of Meereen, who oppose any kind of negotiation with the masters. Grey Worm and Missandei reluctantly support Tyrion, but in private they warn him that the masters, with whom they are both familiar, will use him if he tries to use them.
In King's Landing

Margaery Tyrell is brought to meet the High Sparrow, who warns her to stay away from her life of riches and sin, and recounts his past of how, as a proud cobbler, he learned his wealth-guided pursuits were lies and that the shoeless poor were closer to the truth than anyone. He then takes Margaery to see Loras, who is breaking under the Sparrows' torture, and is willing to do anything to make it stop. Margaery realises that the High Sparrow is trying to use Loras to break her, and tells him to remain strong.

Cersei Lannister meets with Tommen Baratheon, who brings up the High Sparrow. Tommen is reluctant to provoke him, but Cersei says he is dangerous because he has no respect for the Crown. Tommen tells Cersei that Margaery's walk of atonement will happen soon. Cersei relays the information to Kevan Lannister and Olenna Tyrell in the Small Council chamber. Tyrell is horrified and pledges her army to defeat the Sparrows. Kevan has been ordered not to attack by Tommen, but agrees to stand down his army after Cersei says that by destroying the Sparrows he can have back his son Lancel, who is part of the order, and that Tommen will forgive him when he has Margaery back.
At Pyke

Theon Greyjoy returns to the Iron Islands and reunites with his sister, Yara. Yara has not forgiven Theon for not coming with her after her costly assault on the Dreadfort, and accuses Theon of returning to the Iron Islands to take advantage of their father Balon's death to seize the throne. Theon insists he only heard the news after landing and promises that he will instead support Yara's claim at the Kingsmoot.
In Winterfell

Osha is brought before Ramsay Bolton, who asks her why she was helping Rickon. Osha claims that she intended to betray Rickon and attempts to seduce Ramsay while reaching for a nearby knife. However, Ramsay tells her that he is aware Osha used a similar ruse to escape Theon. Realizing this, she tries to stab him, but he quickly stabs her in the neck with another knife, killing her.
In Vaes Dothrak

Jorah Mormont and Daario Naharis arrive at Vaes Dothrak and hide their weapons, as they are forbidden in the city. In the process, Jorah accidentally reveals his greyscale infection to Daario. They infiltrate the city and are forced to kill two of Khal Moro's bloodriders when discovered.

At the Temple of the Dosh Khaleen, Daenerys Targaryen befriends one of the younger Dosh Khaleen, and when they go outside, they encounter Jorah and Daario. The two men want to try to sneak Daenerys out of Vaes Dothrak, but Daenerys knows that is impossible due to the estimated 100,000 Dothraki present in the city. Instead, she tells them she has a different plan.

Later that night, Daenerys stands before the gathered khals in the temple to hear her fate. There, she recalls her pregnancy ritual in this temple and her husband's vow to conquer Westeros. She accuses the khals of being unsuited to leading the Dothraki due to their lack of ambition, and says she will lead them. When Khal Moro and the other khals threaten to gang-rape her instead of serving her, she tells them they will die instead. She tips two braziers onto the straw floor, quickly setting the entire temple on fire by seemingly commanding the flames to move at what appears to be supernatural efficiency[a] and killing the khals, who have been barred inside by the younger Dosh Khaleen. A Dothraki crowd of thousands witnesses Daenerys emerge from the burning temple, naked but unburned. Amazed, they, Jorah and Daario bow down to her. 
