In Meereen

Daenerys Targaryen and Tyrion Lannister discuss dealing with the slaver fleet. Daenerys, Tyrion, Missandei and Grey Worm meet with the Masters, who offer to let Daenerys return to Westeros in return for keeping Missandei and the Unsullied and killing the dragons. She counters that the meeting was called to discuss the Masters' surrender and rides Drogon into the bay with Rhaegal and Viserion and burns the fleet. Missandei tells the Masters that Daenerys has ordered one of them to die as punishment for their crimes. Although they offer the lowborn Yezzan, Grey Worm kills the other two masters instead and Tyrion tells Yezzan to warn the other masters of Daenerys's power. Daario Naharis leads the Dothraki to slaughter the Sons of the Harpy, who are massacring freedmen outside the city.

Daenerys and Tyrion meet with Theon and Yara Greyjoy, who offer Daenerys their fleet of ships in exchange for help in overthrowing Euron and recognizing Yara's claim to the Iron Islands. Daenerys agrees to assist them if the Ironborn will stop reaving the mainland; Yara reluctantly agrees.
At Winterfell

Jon Snow, Sansa Stark, Tormund Giantsbane and Davos Seaworth meet with Ramsay Bolton and his advisers before the battle. Ramsay offers to pardon Jon for breaking his Night's Watch vows if he hands Sansa over. Jon offers to settle their dispute with single combat; Ramsay refuses, saying that he may be unable to defeat Jon but the Bolton army can beat the Stark loyalists. When Smalljon Umber proves that Rickon Stark is captured by presenting Shaggydog's head, Sansa tells Ramsay that he will die the next day and rides off. Ramsay gloats that he has been starving his hounds in anticipation of feeding them Jon and his advisers.

After Jon discusses the battle plan with Tormund and Davos, Sansa criticizes him for attacking without gathering more men and predicts that Ramsay will defeat them. Jon insists that the army is the largest one possible. When Jon asks Melisandre not to resurrect him if he dies in battle, she says that it is up to the Lord of Light. Davos and Tormund discuss their time serving Stannis and Mance and acknowledge that they may have served the wrong king all along. Davos discovers the pyre where Shireen and the wooden stag he carved for her were burned.

The armies gather outside Winterfell the next morning. Ramsay brings Rickon out and has him run to Jon while firing arrows at him. Jon rushes to intercept Rickon but just before escaping, Rickon is killed by an arrow. Jon charges at Ramsay, who orders the Bolton archers to fire and his cavalry to charge; Davos orders the Stark force to shield Jon. The battle leaves hundreds of Bolton and Stark soldiers dead from hand-to-hand combat and from Bolton arrows, creating a wall of corpses. The Bolton infantry forms a circle around the Stark forces. Although the giant Wun Wun kills some Bolton soldiers, Tormund panics and sends the Wildlings towards the wall of bodies and Smalljon's forces, who easily cut them down. Jon is trampled by the Wildlings but struggles to his feet. The Stark forces appear doomed when a horn sounds in the distance as Petyr Baelish and Sansa arrive with the Knights of the Vale, whose cavalry sideswipe and easily smash the remainder of the Bolton army; Tormund kills Smalljon in the chaos.

Ramsay retreats to Winterfell, followed by Jon, Wun Wun and Tormund. Wun Wun breaks down Winterfell's gates and the Stark loyalists overwhelm the remnants of the Bolton garrison. A mortally wounded Wun Wun is finished off by Ramsay, who tells Jon that he has reconsidered the offer of single combat. Jon blocks Ramsay's arrows with a shield, overpowers and begins to beat Ramsay to death, stopping when he sees Sansa and ordering him imprisoned, leaving Winterfell once more in the hands of House Stark. Bolton banners are torn down off the walls and battlements of Winterfell to be replaced by the Stark direwolf. Sansa visits Ramsay after he is placed in the kennels with his hounds and despite Ramsay's insistence that his hounds will not turn on him, Sansa calmly reminds him that they have been purposefully starved and, correctly predicting they would turn on him, they devour him face-first as Sansa walks away, smiling. 
