In King's Landing

Sansa Stark is comforted by Lady Margaery Tyrell, who has heard of Sansa's betrothal to Tyrion Lannister. Elsewhere, Tyrion and Bronn are also discussing the match and how it will affect Shae. Tywin Lannister meets his grandson, King Joffrey Baratheon, and teaches him a lesson in ruling; Joffrey asks what they should do about the rumors of Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons, but Tywin claims there is no threat. When they meet later, Shae tells Tyrion that she will not continue their relationship once he marries Sansa.

On Blackwater Bay, Melisandre reveals to Gendry that his blood is noble and that his father was the late King Robert Baratheon.
In the North

Jon Snow and the wildling party led by Tormund Giantsbane continue their journey south. Ygritte stops with Jon to discuss their next move. Soon after, Orell offers some harsh wisdom to Jon, and later speaks to Ygritte, confessing his love for her and trying to convince her that Jon is still loyal to the Night's Watch. Later, Jon tells Ygritte that the wildling cause is hopeless, but she remains undaunted.

Theon Greyjoy is freed from his constraints by two young women, who give him water and clean his wounds. Theon is apprehensive about their aid, until they disrobe and begin pleasuring him. The three are soon interrupted by his tormenter, who had ordered the women to seduce Theon in order to torment him further. The boy draws a knife and mocks Theon's sexual prowess, before ordering his men to restrain Theon as he removes Theon's genitals.

Heading for the Wall, Bran speaks to Jojen Reed while Osha and Hodor set up camp. Osha continues to grow suspicious of the Reeds, calling Jojen's visions "black magic". When she says they have to continue to the Wall, Jojen reveals that the three-eyed raven is north of the Wall, and that is their destination. Osha refuses to allow them to go north of the Wall, relating to them the story of her husband's death and resurrection as a wight.
In the Riverlands

King Robb Stark, his advisors, and his army are delayed by rain in their march toward the Twins for Edmure Tully's wedding to Roslin Frey. Catelyn Stark and Brynden Tully discuss their distaste for Walder Frey, who will see their delay and Robb's oath-breaking as slights against his family. When the Tullys depart, Queen Talisa Stark reveals to Robb that she is pregnant.

At the Brotherhood's hideout, Arya Stark berates Beric Dondarrion and Thoros of Myr for selling Gendry to Melisandre. When Anguy tells Beric of a Lannister raiding party near them, Beric orders the men to move out in pursuit. Arya calls Beric a liar, as he promised to take her to Riverrun but is instead holding her hostage. She runs away, and is pursued by several of the Brotherhood soldiers, but before they can locate her, she is taken captive by Sandor "The Hound" Clegane.
Outside Yunkai

Daenerys, her knights Ser Jorah Mormont and Ser Barristan Selmy, and her army of Unsullied reach the yellow city of Yunkai. Though she is advised that Yunkai holds no strategic value, Daenerys tells Jorah she will take the city to free its 200,000 slaves. She orders Grey Worm to send a messenger to the city demanding their surrender, or she will sack the city. Razdal mo Eraz is sent by Yunkai to offer terms of peace, which include chests filled with gold bars and as many ships as Daenerys wants. Daenerys refuses his offer, demanding the slaves of the city be freed and paid for their service. Razdal angrily refuses, and departs the tent.
At Harrenhal

Jaime Lannister visits Brienne of Tarth in her cell. He tells her that he will be leaving for King's Landing the next day, and that she will be left at Harrenhal under the care of Locke, as Roose Bolton is also leaving for Edmure Tully's wedding at the Twins. Before Jaime leaves, Brienne makes him swear to uphold his oath to Catelyn Stark and return the Stark girls to their mother. As he leaves, Jaime tells Roose to tell Robb Stark that he is sorry that he can't attend the wedding, but that "the Lannisters send their regards."

While on the road, Qyburn checks on the condition of Jaime's right arm, and reveals that he lost his maester's chain for experimenting on living humans. When Qyburn informs Jaime that Brienne will not be ransomed by Locke, Jaime manipulates the party leader, Steelshanks, to order their return to Harrenhal. Upon their arrival, Jaime finds that Brienne has been thrown into a pit by Locke and his men, and, armed only with a wooden sword, has been forced to defend herself from a bear. Jaime tries to ransom Brienne, but is unsuccessful, and instead leaps into the pit to protect her. Steelshanks shoots the bear with a crossbow, but it continues to attack. However, Jaime boosts Brienne out of the pit, and is then lifted to safety. Confronted by Steelshanks and his men, who are ordered to ensure Jaime's safety, Locke relents and lets Jaime and Brienne leave for King's Landing. 
