In King's Landing

Mace Tyrell informs the other members of the small council that the Iron Bank of Braavos has called in 10% of their debt, and that they can afford to pay only half the amount. Cersei tells Mace that he will be sent to Braavos, along with Ser Meryn Trant, to negotiate a deal. She then leaves to meet with the High Sparrow, authorizing the revival of the Faith Militant, an armed force in service to the faith of the seven, causing an attack on one of Petyr Baelish's brothels, and the arrest of Ser Loras Tyrell because of his homosexuality. News of his arrest reaches Margaery, who asks Tommen to order his release. Tommen first appeals to his mother for Loras's release, but she tells him that he must speak with the High Sparrow. He tries to speak with the High Sparrow, but the Faith Militant prevent him from disturbing his prayers, prompting one of the Kingsguard to inform Tommen that they will kill the Faith Militant if he orders them to do so. Tommen is visibly unnerved at the prospect of shedding blood on the steps of the Sept of Baelor despite his desire to please Margaery. When some street urchins start yelling insults at him about his incestuous parentage, Tommen quickly realizes they are outnumbered and tactfully orders his Kingsguard not to attack the Faith Militant, saying they will find another way to free Loras. Frustrated with Tommen's inaction, Margaery leaves to inform her grandmother Olenna of the situation.
At the Wall

After assisting in training his men, Jon signs several letters to be sent to northern lords, including Roose Bolton, pleading that they send men and supplies to help defend the Wall, which is extremely undermanned with only 50 Night's Watch men remaining at Castle Black. Jon is reluctant to plead to the Boltons for aid, but must respect the Night's Watch's neutrality. Melisandre arrives to ask Jon to join Stannis in taking Winterfell from the Boltons, but he again declines. She attempts to seduce him, but he is able to resist her advances, telling Melisandre that he still loves Ygritte. Before leaving, she says "You know nothing, Jon Snow", mimicking Ygritte. Elsewhere in Castle Black, Stannis tells his daughter, Shireen, the story of how she became afflicted with greyscale, and how he did everything in his power to cure her.
At Winterfell

In the crypts, Sansa lights candles for her deceased family members. Petyr arrives, and tells her about her aunt, Lyanna, and how Robert's Rebellion started when Rhaegar Targaryen allegedly kidnapped her. He informs Sansa that he is leaving Winterfell to return to King's Landing, at Cersei's request. Petyr also tells Sansa that Stannis and his army are at Castle Black, and suggests that they will soon take Winterfell from the Boltons, whom they outnumber. As they believe that all of her siblings are dead, Petyr believes that Stannis will appoint Sansa as Wardeness of the North. Sansa asks him what if Stannis does not overthrow the Boltons, and Littlefinger states that in that case she will learn to control Ramsay Bolton.
In Dorne

Jaime and Bronn arrive in Dorne, with the intention of rescuing Myrcella Baratheon. Bronn wonders why Jaime is so adamant about personally participating in the rescue, and Jaime implies that he seeks redemption for indirectly causing his father Tywin's death and claims that he will personally kill his brother Tyrion if he ever sees him again. Shortly after landing they are discovered by four Dornish guards, who recognise the duo as being from King's Landing. Jaime and Bronn are forced to kill the guards after being ordered to disarm. In doing so, Jaime learns how to use his metal hand to his advantage.

Elsewhere, Ellaria Sand meets with Oberyn's three bastard daughters: Obara, Nymeria, and Ellaria's daughter Tyene, collectively known as the Sand Snakes. Through a captured ship captain, they have learned that Jaime has come to Dorne, and Ellaria deduces that he intends to take Myrcella back to King's Landing. She asks them to join her in starting a war with the Lannisters, and they agree.
On the Summer Sea

At night, Jorah Mormont attacks a fisherman and steals his boat. He takes the captive Tyrion and sets sail. In the morning, Tyrion deduces Jorah's identity, and learns that he is being taken to Daenerys, not his sister Cersei. When Tyrion presses Jorah about his motives for bringing him to Daenerys, Jorah knocks him out.
In Meereen
Ser Barristan tells stories about Rhaegar Targaryen to Daenerys. Daenerys leaves to attend to Hizdahr zo Loraq, who repeats his request to reopen the fighting pits. In the streets, several members of the Sons of the Harpy attack civilians. A patrol of Unsullied, led by Grey Worm, respond to the panic, but are ambushed by more Sons of the Harpy. In the ensuing battle, a majority of the Unsullied are slaughtered and Grey Worm is injured before Ser Barristan arrives to assist him. Though Barristan slays many of the Sons of the Harpy, they start to overwhelm him and he is stabbed multiple times. Barely defeating his attackers, Grey Worm manages to save Barristan from having his throat slit and the two collapse next to each other, surrounded by dead Unsullied and Sons of the Harpy. 
