On Dragonstone

The eldest living brother of the late King Robert, Stannis Baratheon, announces himself as rightful heir to the Iron Throne. From his court on the island of Dragonstone, he sends a letter to all the corners of the Seven Kingdoms announcing that Joffrey, Tommen, and Myrcella Baratheon are not Robert's true heirs, but rather the products of incest between Cersei Lannister and her twin brother Jaime. Stannis refuses to seek an alliance with Robb Stark or Renly Baratheon, despite the advice of his advisor Ser Davos Seaworth, because he sees them as usurpers; Stannis insists that all will bend the knee to him or be destroyed.

Stannis's maester, Cressen, is preoccupied with his lord's decisions and especially with the influence that the foreign priestess Melisandre has over him. Having come under the influence of the Red Priestess and her god, the Lord of Light R'hllor, Stannis has even converted to the new religion and has ordered the burning of the statues of the Westerosi Seven Gods. Willing to sacrifice himself for Stannis's sake, Cressen puts poison in a cup and asks Melisandre to drink from it after he has done so. While he dies almost immediately, the priestess swallows the entire cup unaffected.
In the Riverlands

King in the North Robb Stark visits his prisoner Jaime Lannister, informing Jaime that Robb has received Stannis' letter about Cersei's children being Jaime's, and surmises that his brother Bran was crippled and his father was killed because they had discovered this themselves. Robb also informs Jaime that he intends to send Jaime's cousin, Alton Lannister, who also has been captured by the Northern army, to King's Landing with terms for peace. His demands include the release of his sisters Sansa and Arya, the return of the remains of Eddard and his household for proper burial, and the acknowledgement of the Northern independence.

Although he has defeated the Lannisters three times on the battlefield, Robb knows that he cannot beat them alone. For this reason, he reluctantly agrees to send Theon Greyjoy to his father, Lord Balon Greyjoy, to convince Lord Greyjoy to join them with all the naval force of the Iron Islands. While his mother Catelyn wishes to return to Winterfell to be with her sons Bran and Rickon, Robb asks her to travel to Renly's court to negotiate an alliance. Catelyn tells Robb that his father would be proud of what Robb has accomplished, but warns him that Balon Greyjoy is not to be trusted.
At Winterfell

Bran Stark is learning how to be the Lord of Winterfell while his older brother is away at war. He has a strange dream, where he sees himself as Summer, his direwolf, running in the Godswood. The next morning, he goes to the Godswood with Osha, who tries to pry about his dreams, but Bran ignores her questions. The pair notice a red comet in the sky; Bran remarks that the men claim it is an omen of victory for one side or another in the war, but Osha insists it means one thing: dragons have returned.
Beyond the Wall

The ranging party that set out from Castle Black reaches Craster's Keep, a settlement some distance north of the Wall. Craster provides information on the wildlings and their leader, King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder, claiming that Rayder is amassing an army in the mountains, larger than any south of the Wall, and intends to move south. Lord Commander Jeor Mormont offers leadership advice to Jon Snow due to Jon's disgust that Craster has taken his daughters as his wives.
In the Red Waste

With the remnants of Khal Drogo's khalasar, Daenerys Targaryen crosses the Red Waste hoping to find shelter. The trip is hard, with her newborn dragons unwilling to eat the meat they are offered, and horses dying of exhaustion. Finally, Daenerys sends riders on their remaining horses to explore in three separate directions.
In King's Landing

During a series of combats held to celebrate King Joffrey Baratheon's name day, the captive Sansa Stark saves the drunkard Ser Dontos Hollard's life by convincing Joffrey to make him a fool instead of killing him. The festivities are interrupted by the arrival of Tyrion Lannister, who has been sent to the capital to act as Hand of the King in his father's stead. Cersei is furious, but accepts the new situation after her brother assures her that he will only act as an advisor. When Tyrion learns that Cersei has let Arya Stark escape after the execution of her father, he mocks her for throwing away two valuable hostages, as he'd planned to trade the girls for Jaime.

King Joffrey confronts his mother with Stannis' letter. Immediately after, the City Watch murders all of King Robert's illegitimate children that they can find, though it is not clear who gave the order. Gendry, one of King Robert's bastards, is already out of the city, but, under torture, his former master smith reveals that he is in a caravan traveling to the Wall. Unknown to the Lannisters, Arya Stark is also travelling in that caravan. 
