In King's Landing

Tommen and Margaery are wed, and that night, they consummate their marriage. Margaery then manipulates Tommen into trying to persuade his mother, Cersei, to return to Casterly Rock for her wellbeing, but she declines. Cersei, with the façade of a caring mother-in-law, confronts Margaery and is powerless when she mockingly gossips about Tommen's enthusiasm in the bedroom and Cersei's age.

In a whorehouse, the High Septon is attacked by Lancel and several other Sparrows, and forced to walk naked through the streets while they call him a sinner. He requests that the Small Council take action against the Sparrows by executing their leader, the High Sparrow. Cersei meets with the High Sparrow personally to tell him that he will not be executed, and that she has imprisoned the High Septon, whom the High Sparrow will replace as head of the Faith. Returning to the castle, Cersei has Qyburn send a message to Lord Baelish. As Qyburn writes, the body of Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane shakes on Qyburn's operating table.
In the North

Reek passes through the courtyard at Winterfell, while several workers repair the castle. He is horrified to witness several flayed corpses being hung up in the courtyard. While serving dinner to Roose and Ramsay Bolton, Reek overhears that the Boltons do not have enough men to hold the North, should the former bannermen of House Stark rise against them. Roose tells Ramsay that the best way for them to forge alliances is with a marriage.

At Moat Cailin, Petyr Baelish tells Sansa that he has agreed to have her wed to Ramsay. She is disgusted by the idea, since Roose was responsible for the death of her brother and mother, but changes her mind when Petyr points out that this will be an opportunity to take revenge. They arrive at Winterfell and are received by Roose, his wife Walda, and Ramsay. Ramsay promises Petyr that he will never hurt Sansa, before Roose arrives to discuss the possible ramifications of their plan. Petyr tells him that, with Tywin Lannister dead and Margaery Tyrell as queen, they have no reason to fear the Lannisters. Roose is unconvinced, and shows him the letter sent for Baelish from Cersei. Petyr reassures him of their alliance, but Roose requests to read Baelish's reply nonetheless.

Petyr and Sansa are being secretly followed by Brienne and Podrick. Podrick tells Brienne the story of how he came to serve Tyrion Lannister, and Brienne tells him of how she came to be devoted to Renly Baratheon, when he showed her kindness when they were young. She then explains that she believes Stannis Baratheon was responsible for Renly's death, and that she has sworn to kill Stannis in revenge.
At the Wall

Jon, now the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, refuses Stannis's offer to legitimize him in return for helping Stannis take back the North. Stannis tells Jon that his army will leave the Wall within a fortnight to march on Winterfell. In the dining hall, Jon appoints Ser Alliser as First Ranger. He also appoints Janos Slynt as the commander of Greyguard, a ruined castle which Slynt must restore. Slynt refuses and insults Jon, who responds by having Slynt seized and taken outside. Despite his pleas for mercy, Jon personally beheads Slynt. Stannis, who was watching, nods in approval.
In Braavos

Arya watches as the man with Jaqen H'ghar's face helps a man drink from a pool of water. He leaves to pray, and Arya approaches Jaqen, demanding that he begin teaching her to be a Faceless Man. Jaqen reminds her of the phrase "valar dohaeris", which means "all men must serve", and accuses Arya of only wanting to serve herself. She turns and sees that the praying man has died, revealing that the pool of water is poison for those who seek a quick death. Two servants then come to take his body away, but ignore Arya when she asks what they are doing with the body.

Later, Arya is approached by the Waif, who asks her who she is. Arya replies that she is no one, but the Waif is dissatisfied with her answer and begins to beat her. Jaqen arrives and stops the fight, but, noticing that Arya was about to attack the Waif with Needle, asks Arya how she came to be surrounded by things owned by Arya Stark if she is indeed no one. Arya then takes her possessions to a dock, where she throws them into the water. She cannot bring herself to discard Needle, so she hides it amongst some nearby rocks, and returns to sweeping at the House of Black and White. Jaqen then takes her to a room where she and the Waif wash a dead man's body.
In Volantis
Arriving in Volantis, Tyrion persuades Varys to let him depart their carriage and walk the streets. In the city, they witness a red priestess preach to a congregation of slaves about "the savior", Daenerys Targaryen. After the priestess notices Tyrion, the two hide in a brothel. Tyrion talks to a prostitute, but finds himself unable to bring himself to have sex with her, and leaves to urinate. While doing so, he is kidnapped by Jorah Mormont, who tells Tyrion that he intends to take him to the queen. 
