In the North

Bran Stark is awakened from one of his recurring dreams of a three-eyed raven with the pleasant surprise that the specially designed saddle that will allow him to ride has been finished. He goes to test it in the forest under the supervision of his brother Robb and Theon Greyjoy.

While Theon is trying to convince Robb to avenge his father for the Lannisters' attack, a small group of wildlings (humans who live north of the wall, outside of "civilized" lands), who have ventured south, capture Bran. Robb and Theon manage to kill all the men and capture the woman Osha. Despite Theon's help, Robb chastises him for endangering Bran's life when Theon shot an arrow at the wildling who was holding Bran.
In the Eyrie

Tyrion Lannister is able to trick Lysa Arryn into summoning a court to listen to his confession, at which he confesses various misdemeanours committed during his life, but nothing about the attempt on Bran's life or Lysa's husband's death. After, Tyrion publicly demands a trial by combat, and the mercenary Bronn volunteers to fight for him. Lysa Arryn has no choice but to allow it. Bronn defeats Lysa's champion Ser Vardis Egen by tiring the heavily armored knight and kicking him out the Moon Door, and Tyrion is allowed to walk free with Bronn as his escort, much to the dismay of the Tully sisters.
In King's Landing

Eddard Stark awakens in his chambers with Robert Baratheon and Cersei Lannister watching him. Cersei accuses Eddard of kidnapping her brother, Tyrion, and claims Eddard was drunk and attacked Jaime first, but she is silenced by a slap from Robert. After she leaves, Robert tells Eddard that he cannot rule the kingdoms if the Lannisters and Starks are at war and insists that Eddard remain the Hand of the King, or else Robert will give the position to Jaime. Robert also informs Eddard that he will be regent while Robert is away on a hunting trip.

Meanwhile, Arya Stark deals with her father's injury and her loss of Jory during her sword-dance lessons; Syrio Forel tells her it's a perfect opportunity for her to learn to avoid distraction while fighting. In the Starks' common room, Sansa Stark and Septa Mordane are interrupted by Prince Joffrey Baratheon, who apologizes to Sansa for his earlier behavior and gives her a necklace, vowing that she will become his queen in an elaborate wedding ceremony. Sansa happily accepts the apology, unaware Joffrey has been forced into it by his mother.

While acting as regent, Eddard learns that Ser Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane was spotted leading brigands and attacking villages in the Riverlands. Realizing this is revenge for Tyrion's arrest, Eddard orders Lord Beric Dondarrion to secure Gregor's arrest, strips him of his lands and titles, and summons his Lord Tywin Lannister to answer for Gregor's actions. Fearing war with the Lannisters and for his daughters' lives, he orders Arya and Sansa to return to Winterfell for their safety. Sansa protests and mentions her desire to have the blond-haired Joffrey's children; Eddard realizes something and re-reads the book of lineages of the Baratheon family. Doing so, he puts the pieces together: Joffrey does not have black hair like his father, his father's ancestors, and Robert's bastards whom he and Jon Arryn had been researching. Eddard concludes Joffrey is not Robert's real son.
In Vaes Dothrak

Daenerys Targaryen takes one of the dragon eggs and places it on a glowing-hot brazier. She reaches in and picks up the blisteringly hot egg. Her handmaiden rushes in to take the hot egg from her hands, burning herself in the process, but Daenerys's hands are completely unscathed.

Daenerys begins the ritual with the Dosh Khaleen by eating the raw heart of a stallion. After some struggle, she completes the task and stands up to proclaim her unborn son as the Khal who will unite the entire world as one khalasar, and she names him Rhaego. Viserys Targaryen grows angry at his sister's increasing popularity among the Dothraki, but Jorah Mormont urges patience. Viserys ignores him and sneaks away to Daenerys' tent to steal the dragon eggs to fund a new army. However, Jorah confronts him, forcing Viserys to leave the eggs behind. Viserys storms off after a tense exchange of words between the two men.

Later, at a feast for Daenerys and Khal Drogo, a drunken Viserys draws his sword on his sister, threatening that if the Khal does not give him an army to take back the Seven Kingdoms, he will take back Daenerys and cut out her child. Khal Drogo agrees to give him the "golden crown" that he wants, and Viserys lets his guard down, allowing Drogo's bloodriders to restrain him. Drogo melts his belt in a stewpot, and Viserys realises to his horror that the "golden crown" is actually molten gold, which Drogo pours on his head. Daenerys watches her brother's painful death calmly, and coldly observes: "He was no dragon. Fire cannot kill a dragon." 
