In the Narrow Sea

Samwell Tarly begins to feel seasick as he travels by boat to Oldtown with Gilly and her baby, Little Sam. Sam explains to Gilly that women are not welcomed at the Citadel and that he intends to leave her with his family at Horn Hill while he trains to be a maester. He tells Gilly that she and Little Sam are all that matter to him.
Beyond the Wall

Bran Stark and the Three-eyed Raven observe a vision of a young Eddard Stark, Lord Howland Reed and several other northern soldiers arriving at the Tower of Joy in Dorne's Red Mountains at the climax of Robert's Rebellion. Ser Arthur Dayne and Ser Gerold Hightower greet Eddard as he arrives. Bran remarks that Ser Arthur Dayne was the best swordsman his father ever saw.

Eddard says Prince Rhaegar Targaryen and the Mad King have been killed and asks why Ser Arthur was not present at the Battle of the Trident. Ser Arthur replies that he has been ordered to stay at the tower. After Eddard demands to know where his sister is, a battle ensues. Eddard is able to defeat Ser Gerold, but Ser Arthur - wielding dual swords - easily defeats most of Eddard's men by himself. As Eddard and Ser Arthur duel one-on-one, Bran is puzzled by this vision, as his father had repeatedly boasted of his defeat of Ser Arthur. It is quite apparent that his father is no match for the superior swordsman. Just as Ser Arthur is about to defeat and kill Eddard, a wounded Howland rises and plunges his dagger through the back of Ser Arthur's neck, before Eddard delivers the fatal blow, leaving Bran shocked.

When a woman's scream emerges from the tower, Ned and Howland begin to run inside. The Three-Eyed Raven begins to end the vision, explaining the rest is intended for another time, but Bran demands to stay and calls out to Ned. Ned turns for a second, seemingly having heard Bran's voice, but eventually continues inside, before the Three-Eyed Raven pulls Bran out of the vision. Back in the cave, Bran demands to know what was in the tower. The Three-Eyed Raven does not attend Bran's demands, saying he will eventually have to leave the cave but first must learn "everything."
In Vaes Dothrak

Daenerys Targaryen arrives with Khal Moro's khalasar at Vaes Dothrak, and is escorted to meet with the Dosh Khaleen by Moro's bloodriders. The elder of the Dosh Khaleen tries to sympathize with Daenerys, saying she was once married to a great khal with whom she thought she would rule the world but met the same fate. After giving Daenerys a change of clothes, she explains that the various khalasar have gathered at Vaes Dothrak to discuss which cities and towns to conquer. They have also met to discuss what to do with Daenerys, noting that she hopes for her safety should they decide to let her remain with the Dosh Khaleen.
In Meereen

Varys summons Vala, a woman allied with the Sons of the Harpy, to the throne room in the Great Pyramid. He accuses her of conspiring to kill the Unsullied and Second Sons, but she replies by calling them foreign invaders. Varys tries to explain his perspective and mentions her son, Dom. Vala explains that if she gives him information on the Sons of the Harpy they will likely kill her. Varys offers her safe passage to Pentos with a bag of silver for information.

Meanwhile, Tyrion Lannister awkwardly tries to entertain Grey Worm and Missandei while waiting for Varys. Varys arrives and explains that he has discovered that the slave masters of Yunkai, Astapor, and Volantis have been financing the Sons of the Harpy. Grey Worm notes that the Unsullied have taken Astapor and Yunkai once before, but Tyrion warns him that marching on the cities will leave Meereen defenseless. They come to the conclusion that the only way to defeat the Sons of the Harpy is to hunt them down. Tyrion asks Varys to send his "little birds" (street children who act as spies and messengers) to deliver a message to the leaders of Astapor, Yunkai, and Volantis.
In King's Landing

Qyburn gives orders to the "little birds" that he has inherited from Varys as Cersei, Jaime Lannister, and the re-animated Ser Gregor Clegane arrive. Cersei orders Qyburn to put spies in the North, the Reach, and Dorne. Later, Cersei and Jaime interrupt a Small Council meeting at which Lord Kevan Lannister, Lady Olenna Tyrell, Lord Mace Tyrell, and Grand Maester Pycelle are present. Cersei and Jaime mention that Ellaria and the Sand Snakes have taken Dorne for their own, and demand to sit in on the Small Council; when they refuse to leave, Kevan instead orders the council to leave the room.

Tommen Baratheon marches into the Sept of the Faith Militant with his Kingsguard, demanding to let Cersei see Myrcella's tomb. The High Sparrow explains she will be able to once her sins have been atoned for and she has faced trial. After telling their respective soldiers to stand down, the High Sparrow explains the importance of the Mother in the Faith of the Seven, showing Tommen his resemblance to his mother.
In Braavos

Arya Stark trains using sticks with the Waif in the House of Black and White. In between sessions, the Waif questions Arya about who she used to be. Arya reveals all of her family members and reveals that she had taken the Hound off her kill list before she left him to die. The Waif questions who the other names were on the list, which Arya reveals as Cersei Lannister, Gregor Clegane, and Walder Frey.

After she is finally able to parry the Waif's hits, Jaqen H'ghar takes Arya into the main chamber and offers Arya her sight back if she says her name. When she replies, "a girl has no name," Jaqen offers her a drink from the poisonous well in the temple's entrance chamber. Arya drinks and closes her eyes, reopening them to reveal that her sight has been restored.
At Winterfell

Smalljon Umber meets with Ramsay Bolton and Harald Karstark. He explains to Ramsay that Jon Snow has been letting Wildlings through the Wall and fears that they will make their way south. When Ramsay asks why the Umbers have not already sworn fealty, Smalljon expresses his dislike for Roose Bolton and declares that was why Ramsay killed him, despite Ramsay's false insistence that Roose was poisoned. Ramsay offers assistance if Smalljon will swear to him as Warden of the North but he refuses, citing Roose's betrayal of his oath to Robb Stark. Instead, Smalljon demonstrates his loyalty by presenting Ramsay with "a gift", two hooded figures who are revealed to be Rickon Stark and Osha. When Ramsay asks him how he can be sure that the boy is Rickon Stark, Smalljon presents him with the severed head of Rickon's direwolf Shaggydog.
At the Wall

After awakening, Jon Snow is greeted by Davos Seaworth and Melisandre. When asked by Davos what he can remember, Jon says he remembers only his assassination but nothing from being dead. Melisandre tells Jon that her religion prophesies the return of a heroic prince and suggests that this prince may not be Stannis, as she first thought, but Jon. Jon enters the courtyard to meet with the wildlings. He meets with and embraces Tormund Giantsbane and Dolorous Edd, Tormund saying the Wildlings think he is a god.

Jon presides over the hanging of Ser Alliser Thorne, Olly, Othell Yarwyck, and Bowen Marsh. He takes last words from all those who are about to be executed except from Olly who remains silent. Ser Alliser is unrepentant, declaring only that he did what was right for the Night's Watch, and while he will now be able to rest, Jon will still be fighting the wildlings' battles forever. Jon cuts the rope and the mutineers' necks break. Jon then gives his cloak to Edd, telling him that Castle Black is now his and saying, "My watch is ended". 
