In King's Landing

Tyrion Lannister arrives at his quarters to find his lover Shae and Lord Varys conversing. Varys and Tyrion subtly threaten each other: Varys that he could reveal Shae's presence against Tyrion's father's instruction, and Tyrion that he would kill Varys in return. During a Small Council meeting, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister reads Robb Stark's peace terms, ripping up the letter after reading it, as well as a letter from the Night's Watch Lord Commander Jeor Mormont, asking for more men to man the Wall and warning of the Watch's encounters with the undead. With the exception of Tyrion, the Small Council doesn't take Mormont's letter seriously. Later, Tyrion has dinner with City Watch Commander Lord Janos Slynt, discussing the purge of King Robert Baratheon's bastard children. When Janos refuses to reveal who ordered the purge, Tyrion has Janos arrested and exiled to the Night's Watch, with Bronn taking over his position. Cersei later confronts Tyrion about exiling Janos, and Tyrion realizes that it was King Joffrey Baratheon, not Cersei, who ordered the purges. He warns his sister that "it will be difficult to rule over millions who want the Queen dead."
At Dragonstone

Davos Seaworth and his son, Matthos, manage to convince Davos' old friend, the pirate Salladhor Saan, to bring his ships and join them in the war. In exchange, Saan will get to ransack King's Landing, but Davos cannot promise his second request – to bed the Queen. Both Salladhor and Davos express displeasure at Matthos' devotion to the Lord of Light. Later, Davos tells Stannis Baratheon and Melisandre of Saan's willingness to aid their army with his 30 ships. Stannis orders Davos and Matthos from the room, at which point Melisandre seduces Stannis and promises him a son if he will give himself completely to the Lord of Light.
On the Iron Islands

Theon Greyjoy returns to his homeland, but is not happy with the greeting he receives. Shortly after, he is greeted by a young woman, Yara. They share a horse ride to Pyke, during which Theon attempts to physically seduce her. Later, he receives a cold welcome from his father, Balon, upon arrival at the castle. Theon presents Balon with the offer from Robb that will make Balon the King of the Iron Islands, but Balon refuses while insulting Theon for his adoption of Northern customs. Balon instead wants to take his crown with Yara, who turns out to be Theon's sister, at the helm of his fleet, but does not intend to fight the Lannisters, which causes Theon to realise that Balon's intention is to take the North for himself instead.
In the Red Waste

Rakharo's horse returns to Daenerys Targaryen's camp, carrying his head in one of its saddlebags. Ser Jorah Mormont tells her it is a message from one of the other khals, none of whom like the idea of a khalasar ruled by a woman. Daenerys vows revenge as she prepares a funeral pyre for Rakharo.
On the Kingsroad

Two City Watchmen arrive at the caravan with a royal warrant, searching for Gendry. However, they are turned away by Yoren, after he threatens their lives. Later, Gendry reveals to Arya that he knows she is a girl, after a conversation about why the City Watch would be hunting him. She in turn also reveals to him that she is actually Arya Stark after learning her father met Gendry several weeks before he was executed.
At Craster's Keep
Samwell Tarly helps Gilly, one of Craster's daughter-wives, when she is confronted by Jon's direwolf, Ghost. Sam asks Jon Snow about taking her with them, but Jon refuses since they aren't supposed to be involved in Craster's family affairs. Gilly, who is pregnant, refuses to reveal why she wants to leave, but the conversation again arouses Jon's suspicions about what happens to Craster's sons. Later that night, Jon witnesses Craster taking a newborn child into the woods. He follows Craster, only to see him returning empty-handed. Hearing the cracking of ice, he rushes to the aid of the child where he sees a White Walker retrieve the baby. Before Jon can pursue it, Craster hits him over the head, causing Jon to black out. 
