Prologue, in the Westerlands

In a flashback, a young Cersei Lannister and her friend meet Maggy the Frog, whom they know to be a witch and fortune teller. Cersei demands to know her future, and whether or not she will marry the prince, Rhaegar Targaryen, and have his children. Maggy informs her that she will instead be wed to "the king" (Robert Baratheon) and while she will have three children, the king will have twenty. She also says that all of Cersei's children will wear golden crowns, but also golden shrouds (meaning they will all die), and that another queen, younger and more beautiful than Cersei, will cast her down.
In King's Landing

In the present, Cersei arrives at the Sept of Baelor to pay respects to her deceased father Tywin. Once inside the Sept, she chastises her brother Jaime for freeing their brother Tyrion and thus indirectly causing their father's death. At Tywin's wake, Cersei is approached by her uncle Kevan Lannister and her cousin Lancel Lannister, who has become a devout member of the Sparrows, a religious group devoted to the Faith of the Seven. Lancel asks Cersei's forgiveness for their adulterous relationship and for his role in giving King Robert Baratheon wine before the hunt in which Robert was mortally wounded. Cersei denies any knowledge of her husband's murder, and leaves.

Margaery Tyrell walks in on her brother, Loras, and his lover, Olyvar, naked in bed. After dismissing Olyvar, she tells Loras that he should be more discreet but he dismisses this idea by saying that they already know about him and that he is unlikely to be married to Cersei as Tywin's death means no one can force her to do anything. He calls this bad news for Margaery as it means that Cersei will remain in King's Landing instead of going to Highgarden with him. Margaery hints that she may have a solution.
In Pentos

Tyrion, weary and drunk, is broken out of the crate in which he was smuggled out of Westeros by Varys. Arriving in Pentos, Varys tells Tyrion that he and Illyrio Mopatis had worked together in secret to install Daenerys Targaryen as the new ruler of Westeros, and convinces Tyrion to travel with him to Meereen to meet her.
In Meereen

Several Unsullied remove the large gold harpy from the top of the Great Pyramid in Meereen. Later, one of the Unsullied is murdered in a brothel by a member of the Sons of the Harpy, a resistance group operating in Meereen. Daenerys orders Grey Worm to find those responsible, and for the murdered soldier to be buried in the Temple of the Graces as a statement of defiance to the Sons.

Daario Naharis and Hizdahr zo Loraq return to Meereen and Hizdhar declares that the mission to Yunkai has been successful, and that the Wise Masters will turn over power to a council of former slaves and former slave owners. In exchange, the Wise Masters have asked that Daenerys consent to the reopening of the fighting pits, an arena where slaves used to fight to the death. Daenerys denies the request. Later, Daario urges her to reconsider, as his youth spent fighting in the pits gave him the combat skills necessary for him to join the Second Sons, where he met Daenerys.

After a comment made by Daario, Daenerys visits her two captive dragons, Viserion and Rhaegal, which she locked underground to prevent them from killing people. When she approaches them, they show aggression toward her, forcing her to flee the room.
In the Vale

Lord Petyr Baelish and Sansa Stark watch Lord Robin Arryn struggle while sparring with a young boy. Sansa witnesses Baelish receiving a message, which he quickly hides. Lord Yohn Royce has agreed to take Robin as his ward and train him to fight, but is not optimistic of his abilities. Though Baelish told Lord Royce that they would be travelling to the Fingers, Baelish and Sansa instead head west, with Baelish explaining that he is taking her to a place where the Lannisters can never find her.

Podrick Payne attempts to plan the next move for Brienne of Tarth and himself, but Brienne tells him that she doesn't want anyone following her. He reminds her of the oath she swore to Jaime to find the Stark girls, but she states that Arya did not want her protection. As the two talk, a caravan passes nearby, carrying, unbeknownst to them, Baelish and Sansa.
At the Wall
Jon Snow helps train new recruits to the Night's Watch, while Samwell Tarly talks to Gilly about the frontrunners to be the next Lord Commander. Sam fears that Ser Alliser Thorne will be selected, as he hates the wildlings. Jon is summoned by Melisandre to speak with King Stannis Baratheon. Stannis wants Jon to persuade Mance Rayder to bend the knee and have the wildlings fight for Stannis, so that he can take back the North from Roose Bolton. Stannis tells Jon that he has until sundown to convince Mance, or he will have him burnt at the stake. Jon tries to get Mance to agree, but he will not bend the knee as he fears that the wildlings will not follow him if he does. At night, Mance is brought before Stannis and told that if he agrees, he will be allowed to live. Mance declines the offer and is placed on the pyre. Jon, unwilling to watch Mance die in agony, shoots him with an arrow to give him a quick death. 
