In the North

Crippled Bran Stark has Osha carry him into the Stark family crypt beneath Winterfell. There, they encounter the youngest Stark brother, Rickon, and his direwolf Shaggydog. Both brothers felt drawn to the crypts after dreaming about the death of their father Ned. As they leave the crypt, Maester Luwin arrives to inform Bran of his father's execution.
In the Riverlands

At the Stark army camp, Catelyn consoles Robb, who grieves over his father's death. Robb vows revenge on the Lannisters, but Catelyn reminds him that they must first rescue Arya and Sansa. As the Starks consult their followers over whether to support Stannis or Renly Baratheon, both of whom have challenged Joffrey Baratheon's claim to the throne, Lord Greatjon Umber instead makes the case for Northern independence. Theon Greyjoy and the others agree, proclaiming Robb the "King in the North". Later, Catelyn interrogates the captive Jaime Lannister. He admits having pushed Bran out of the tower window, but refuses to tell why.

At the Lannister army camp, Lord Tywin Lannister and his followers discuss their recent setbacks: not only have they lost an important battle, and Jaime, to the Starks, along with his entire army, but both Baratheon brothers now also threaten them. Because his grandson's execution of Ned Stark destroyed any hope to sue for peace between the Starks and the Lannisters, Tywin orders his son Tyrion to go to King's Landing in his stead as Hand of the King in order to keep Joffrey under control. Against his father's orders, Tyrion brings the prostitute Shae with him to the capital.
In King's Landing

After a bard, Marillion, composes a bawdy song about King Robert's death, Joffrey offers him the choice between losing his fingers or his tongue, with Marillion choosing to have his tongue cut out. Joffrey then leads Sansa onto a small wooden bridge at the top of a battlement and forces her to look upon the heads of her father and other Stark household members mounted on spikes. When Joffrey tells her of his plans to add Robb's head to the collection, Sansa defies him by wishing to see his own head mounted there, for which Joffrey has Ser Meryn Trant slap her. As Sansa contemplates pushing Joffrey off the bridge, she is stopped by "The Hound", Sandor Clegane, who wipes the blood off her mouth and tells her to obey Joffrey for her own safety.

Meanwhile, Arya, after being rescued by Night's Watch recruiter Yoren, takes on the identity of the boy "Arry" to escape with Yoren and his new recruits. After being picked on by two boys who plan to steal her sword, Arya threatens to kill them until Gendry, King Robert's unknowing bastard son, scares them off. Arya and Gendry leave with Yoren's caravan, bound for the Wall.
At the Wall

Jon attempts to desert the Night's Watch to join Robb and avenge his father, despite Sam's pleading. Pursued by Sam, Pyp and Grenn, Jon tells them to leave, but they convince Jon to return to the Watch by reciting their oath. The next morning, Lord Commander Jeor Mormont tells Jon that he is aware of his attempt at desertion. Nevertheless, he orders Jon to join him in an expedition beyond the Wall, intended to counter the threat of the wildlings and the White Walkers, and to find the missing First Ranger, Benjen Stark.
In Lhazar

On waking up, Daenerys Targaryen learns from Ser Jorah Mormont that her unborn son died, his life used up in Mirri's spell that saved the life of Khal Drogo. Drogo has fallen into a catatonic state, which leads most of his followers to abandon him. Daenerys accuses Mirri of tricking her by not revealing the real price of her magic, and Mirri reveals that she sought to avenge the destruction of her village and her people. Unable to bear her husband's condition, Daenerys smothers Drogo with a pillow, killing him.

Daenerys and her remaining followers build a funeral pyre for Drogo. Daenerys places her dragon eggs atop the pyre, and she orders Ser Jorah to tie Mirri to it. Having set fire to the pyre, Daenerys declares herself queen of a new khalasar, freeing those who would remain with her. Despite Jorah's worries, Daenerys then steps into the pyre. By daybreak, Jorah and the khalasar are surprised to find her unharmed in the ashes, carrying three dragon hatchlings. Amazed, they bow to Daenerys as one of the hatchlings clambers onto her shoulder and a dragon's screech is heard for the first time in centuries. 
