In the Mountains of the Moon

As Tyrion and Bronn head towards Tywin Lannister's camp, they are surrounded by one of the barbarian hill tribes of the Vale, led by Shagga. Tyrion convinces them to serve as his escorts by promising them gold, weapons and an army to help them seize the Vale of Arryn. Tywin is displeased, but agrees to keep Tyrion's promises if the hill tribes join the fight against the Starks. The tribesmen agree, but want Tyrion to follow them as insurance, much to Tyrion's discomfort.
In the Eyrie

Catelyn confronts her sister Lysa about the letter Catelyn received regarding events at King's Landing. Lysa refuses to send troops to help the Starks against the Lannisters because she only cares for the safety of her son Robin. A disgusted Catelyn leaves the Eyrie.
In the North

After receiving a letter from Sansa (see below), Maester Luwin concludes Sansa is being manipulated by Cersei. Robb calls his family's bannermen to war against the Lannisters, much to Theon Greyjoy's pleasure. After gaining the respect of Stark bannerman Lord "Greatjon" Umber and leaving Bran in charge of Winterfell, Robb and his army march south.
In the Riverlands

The Stark forces, having made camp in the Riverlands, are joined by Catelyn. During a council of war at which Robb ponders whether to attack Tywin's or Jaime's forces, his men present him with a captured Lannister scout. Robb decides to let him go with a message to Tywin that "winter is coming" for him, but tricks him into thinking Robb is sending his entire army of 20,000 men to attack Tywin.
At the Wall

Jon Snow, Sam and their party return to the Wall after finding two frozen corpses. Lord Commander Mormont recognizes them as Benjen Stark's fellow rangers and orders their bodies examined. Sam points out that there is no sign of decay on their corpses, even though they have apparently been dead for weeks. Later, Mormont informs Jon about events in the south and warns him to keep his commitment to the Night's Watch. Jon loses his temper after Ser Alliser Thorne mocks Eddard Stark's treason. Enraged, Jon charges at Thorne with a knife but is held back by his companions and confined to his quarters by Mormont.

Later that night, Jon's direwolf Ghost behaves strangely, prompting Jon to investigate Mormont's quarters. As Jon enters, he is attacked by one of the dead rangers, returned to life as a wight. The undead monster is immune to Jon's sword, continuing to attack even after being run through and losing an arm. As Mormont enters, Jon throws a lantern at the wight, setting the wight ablaze and finally destroying it. The next morning, Mormont and the Night's Watch burn the two bodies, and Sam tells them that he read that corpses touched by the White Walkers are reanimated and can only be killed by fire.
In Lhazar

Khal Drogo's khalasar sacks a Lhazareen village in order to gather funds for the ships they need to invade the Seven Kingdoms. Daenerys Targaryen is dismayed by their brutality, and after seeing Dothraki raiders gather several village women for use as sex slaves, she orders Ser Jorah Mormont and her bodyguards to claim the women as hers. Challenged in front of Drogo, she defends her actions as her right as khaleesi, and demands that the raiders marry rather than enslave the women they desire. Impressed, Drogo sides with his wife, but the leading raider, Mago, is unimpressed and challenges the Khal to a duel. Mago is swiftly killed by Drogo, but not before inflicting a deep wound. Daenerys worries about the wound, and the Khal reluctantly allows one of the spared villagers, a healer by the name of Mirri Maz Duur, to treat his wounds. This attracts further ire from the Dothraki, who derisively call the woman "maegi", a witch.
In King's Landing

After Ned Stark is imprisoned following his failed attempt to arrest Joffrey and Cersei Lannister, the Lannisters move against the rest of the Stark household. While Ned's eldest daughter Sansa is detained, Arya is able to escape after her fencing teacher Syrio Forel holds off the Lannister men. As Arya runs outside looking for her sword, a stable boy tries to detain her for the Queen, but she fatally stabs him before fleeing the castle.

Cersei convinces Sansa that to save her father's life, she must write a letter to her brother Robb imploring him to come to King's Landing and swear fealty to Joffrey. Later, Joffrey and Cersei hold court, where they reward Janos Slynt, the Captain of the City Watch, with a lordship, while Tywin Lannister is named the new Hand of the King. Joffrey also relieves Ser Barristan Selmy as Lord Commander of the Kingsguard and gives his post to Jaime Lannister. Selmy is offered a castle and land in recognition of his service, but a furious Selmy, regarding the offer as an insult, throws his sword at Joffrey's feet and storms out in disgust. Sansa takes the opportunity to publicly plead for her father's life, and Joffrey agrees to show mercy if Ned will confess to treason and accept him as the rightful king. 
