In King's Landing

Tywin Lannister has the Stark family's ancestral greatsword, Ice, melted down and reforged into two new swords. One is given to his son Jaime, who, as the new Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, hopes to learn to use the sword with his left hand. Tywin informs Jaime that he is to be dismissed from the Kingsguard and sent to Casterly Rock to rule in his place, but Jaime refuses and leaves. He attempts to return the sword, but Tywin tells him to keep it, as he will need every advantage he can find now that he has been disowned.

Outside the city walls, Tyrion, his squire Podrick, and his bodyguard Bronn await the arrival of Prince Doran Martell and his entourage, but are informed that his younger brother, Prince Oberyn, will be attending in his stead. Oberyn, having already arrived, maims a Lannister soldier at one of Lord Baelish's whorehouses before Tyrion arrives. Oberyn reveals to Tyrion that he is in King's Landing to seek vengeance for the death of his sister, Elia, and her two children. Elia had been married to Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, who was next in line to the throne before Robert Baratheon killed him, and King's Landing fell to Tywin's army. Oberyn wants to kill Ser Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane, who is rumored to have raped and murdered Elia during the siege, and suggests that Ser Gregor was acting upon orders from Tywin himself.

At lunch, Shae tries in vain to get Sansa to eat. Sansa reveals to Tyrion that she cannot eat or sleep since hearing of how Robb and Catelyn Stark's bodies were desecrated after their murders ("The Rains of Castamere"). Sansa leaves for the godswood, where she is approached by Dontos Hollard, the former knight turned king's fool. Dontos thanks Sansa for saving his life on Joffrey's name-day celebration ("The North Remembers"), and gives her his mother's necklace as a token of his gratitude.

Tyrion returns to his chamber where he rebuffs Shae's attempts to rekindle their romance, and their argument is overheard by another of Sansa's handmaidens. Meanwhile, Jaime is fitted with a gilded steel hand by Qyburn. When he departs, Jaime and his twin sister, Cersei, discuss the state of their relationship before being interrupted by Sansa's handmaiden, with information for the Queen. Later, King Joffrey chastises Jaime for his absence during the Battle of the Blackwater and also makes fun of his age, the loss of his sword hand, and his lack of accomplishment as a member of the Kingsguard. Afterwards, Brienne tries to convince Jaime to follow through on his vow to return the Stark girls to safety, though Jaime argues the matter is now complicated by Catelyn Stark's death, Sansa's marriage to Tyrion and that Arya Stark has been missing ever since Ned Stark was executed ("Baelor").

In the gardens, Lady Olenna Tyrell and her granddaughter, Margaery, plan the royal wedding before Brienne of Tarth asks for a word with Margaery to discuss how Lord Renly was killed ("The Ghost of Harrenhal"). Brienne explains how she was not responsible for Renly's death, and vows to have revenge on his true killer, Stannis Baratheon.
In the North

Awaiting orders from Mance Rayder, Ygritte argues with Tormund Giantsbane about their next move before they are interrupted by the arrival of Styr and his group of cannibal Thenns.
At Castle Black

Having learned of Robb's death, Jon Snow recalls to Samwell Tarly how he envied Robb in their youth, before being summoned to testify to his sworn brothers, including Ser Alliser Thorne, Janos Slynt, and Maester Aemon Targaryen. Jon admits to killing Qhorin Halfhand and sleeping with Ygritte, but also reveals what he has learned of the wildlings' plans. Slynt calls for Jon to be executed as a traitor, and Thorne, who is acting Lord Commander of the Night's Watch following the death of Commander Jeor Mormont, is inclined to agree with him. However, Maester Aemon is convinced of Jon's ultimate loyalty to the Night's Watch and has him released.
In Slaver's Bay

Daenerys Targaryen leads her army on the march to Meereen, the third slaving city of Slaver's Bay. Daenerys becomes disturbed at how her dragons are growing less tame as they grow larger. As they march, Daario Naharis attempts to romance Daenerys, and warns her that if she plans to rule the land, she must learn more about the lifestyle and the culture of the slaves she is freeing. The march is halted by the discovery of a dead slave girl nailed to a mile-post pointing the route to Meereen. Ser Jorah explains that there is one dead child slave nailed to every mile marker on the road to Meereen. Ser Barristan offers to send men ahead to bury them, but Daenerys coldly informs him that she will look upon every dead child's face during the march.
In the Riverlands
Sandor "The Hound" Clegane tells the captive Arya Stark that he intends to ransom her to her Aunt Lysa Arryn in the Vale, before they come across an inn hosting several of the Mountain's men, Lannister soldiers. Among them, Arya recognises Polliver, the man who stole her sword, Needle, and killed Lommy Greenhands. She makes for the entrance before being stopped by the Hound, but they are discovered by one of the soldiers and enter the inn. Though several of the soldiers are fearful of the Hound, Polliver makes conversation with him and offers him a place in their band. After Sandor refuses and the two men trade insults, they engage in a fight. The Hound kills many of the soldiers, while Arya reclaims Needle from Polliver and uses it to kill him the same way he murdered Lommy ("What Is Dead May Never Die"). The two then depart from the tavern, Arya now in possession of a stolen pony. The camera pans out to reveal the Riverlands, now left black and desolate by the Mountain and his men. 
