Beyond the Wall

Bran and Meera Reed are fleeing the wights, who continue to follow them from the cave. Bran, still in his visions, witnesses several events: Jaime Lannister killing King Aerys Targaryen, a dragon flying over the Red Keep, his fall from Winterfell which left him paralyzed, the Night King transforming Craster's last son into a White Walker, the Massacre at Hardhome, Ned Stark's beheading, the murder of his mother Catelyn and brother Robb in the Red Wedding, and wildfire exploding beneath King's Landing. As the wights close in, a black-clad rider appears and destroys some while pulling Meera and Bran onto his horse, allowing them to escape.

Bran awakens to find the rider is his uncle, Benjen Stark, who had gone missing beyond the Wall. Benjen explains that he was stabbed by a White Walker during a ranging and was left to die and become another wight. He was saved by the Children of the Forest by being impaled with dragonglass. He tells Bran that he needs to become the Three-Eyed Raven and control his warging before the Night King comes south.
At Horn Hill

Sam, Gilly and Little Sam arrive at Horn Hill, the seat of House Tarly. Sam warns Gilly not to mention that she is a Wildling, due to his father Randyll's hatred of Wildlings. They are warmly greeted by Sam's mother Melessa and sister Talla.

At dinner, Randyll insults Sam's bookishness, weight, and lack of fighting prowess. Gilly defends Sam, mentioning that Sam killed a Thenn and a White Walker. When Sam's brother Dickon insists that White Walkers don't exist, Gilly declares that she saw the act herself, but in doing so reveals her Wildling heritage. Disgusted, Randyll further insults Sam and Gilly, prompting Melessa and Talla to leave the room with Gilly in anger. Randyll tells Sam that Gilly and Little Sam can remain at Horn Hill, but that he must never set foot in Horn Hill again. Sam bids farewell to Gilly, but then changes his mind and decides to bring her and Little Sam with him to the Citadel. As they leave, Sam takes House Tarly's ancestral Valyrian steel sword, Heartsbane, as well.
In Braavos

Arya once again returns to watch the play featuring Lady Crane. She sneaks backstage during the last act and poisons Lady Crane's rum. As she attempts to leave, Lady Crane stops her, and they discuss acting and Lady Crane's early life. Back in the dressing room, Arya stops Lady Crane from drinking her rum, and warns her that her rival Bianca wants her dead. The scene is witnessed by the Waif, who returns to tell Jaqen H'ghar of Arya's failure. Jaqen gives the Waif permission to kill Arya, on the condition that Arya doesn't suffer. Meanwhile, Arya retrieves her sword, Needle, from the rocks where she had hidden it and takes it to her room.
In King's Landing

The High Sparrow, along with King Tommen, prepares for the walk of atonement of Queen Margaery. The High Sparrow allows Tommen to visit his wife, where he discovers that Margaery has become a devout follower of the Faith of the Seven and repented for her sins.

Jaime and Mace Tyrell lead a company of Tyrell soldiers through the streets of King's Landing to the Great Sept of Baelor, where the High Sparrow is presenting Margaery to the people of King's Landing. Jaime orders the High Sparrow to release Margaery and her brother Loras, threatening force against the Faith Militant. The High Sparrow declares that Margaery will not have to perform a walk of atonement, and instead presents King Tommen, who has agreed to unite the Faith and the Crown. When Mace Tyrell asks his mother, Lady Olenna what this means, she bitterly replies it means the High Sparrow has won.

In the throne room, King Tommen relieves Jaime of his duties on the Kingsguard as punishment for taking up arms against the Faith, to Jaime's dismay. While speaking with Cersei, Jaime reveals that he has been given orders to oust the Blackfish from Riverrun, but that he would rather massacre the Faith Militant to release Tommen from the High Sparrow's influence. Cersei warns him that, if he does so, he will be killed, thus defeating the purpose of liberating Tommen. She counsels him to instead lead the Lannister army on Riverrun, as a show of force to their enemies. About her upcoming trial, Cersei expresses no concern, saying it will be a trial by combat and with "the Mountain" as her champion, she has no fear of a guilty verdict. Cersei and Jaime then passionately kiss and presumably begin making love.
At the Twins

Lord Walder Frey receives word that Riverrun has been retaken by Brynden Tully, commonly known as the Blackfish, Catelyn Stark's uncle and a staunchly loyal officer in Robb Stark's army. Walder chastises his sons Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers, who had been ordered to hold the castle. They defend their loss, as several Riverlords, including House Mallister and House Blackwood, have risen in rebellion against the Freys, and the Brotherhood Without Banners are raiding their supply lines and camps. Walder demands that the Tully stronghold be taken back, refusing to be humiliated by not being able to hold a single castle. He orders his men to bring in Edmure Tully, held as a prisoner of the Freys since the Red Wedding, and declares that they will use him to retake Riverrun.
In the Dothraki Sea
Daenerys discusses with Daario how many ships she will need to cross the Narrow Sea with the Dothraki, the Unsullied and the Second Sons; Daario estimates that at least 1,000 ships will be needed for all of Daenerys's army. Seeing a suspicious gust of wind, Daenerys rides out alone. As Daario prepares to follow her, Drogon flies over the khalasar, with Daenerys riding on his back. Daenerys proceeds to rally the Dothraki by stating that she chooses them all to be her bloodriders, rather than the traditional three chosen by Khals. She then asks if they will cross the sea with her and help her retake the Seven Kingdoms, which they unanimously agree to do. 
