In King's Landing

Cersei is visited by Septa Unella, who offers her water in exchange for a confession of her sins. Cersei asks to speak with Tommen and is struck by the Septa. Later, Qyburn visits Cersei and tells her about the crimes she is charged with, including incest and the murder of Robert Baratheon, which she insists are lies. Qyburn also tells her that Grand Maester Pycelle has taken control of the Small Council and has sent for her uncle, Kevan, to return from Casterly Rock and serve as Tommen's Hand. Before leaving, Qyburn tells Cersei that "the work continues".
In Braavos

Arya assumes the identity of Lanna, an oyster seller. While practicing acting with Jaqen, she describes her typical day to Jaqen, who tells her to change her daily route, and to instead head to the harbour. There she sells oysters to a life insurance salesman. Jaqen explains that the family of one of the salesman's clients hired the Faceless Men to kill him after he refused to pay out when said client drowned at sea. He tells Arya to return to the harbour and learn everything she can about the insurer before poisoning him.
At the Wall

Gilly treats Sam's wounds, before Olly asks for a word with Sam in private. Olly asks Sam why Jon trusts the wildlings, noting that the wildlings, including Tormund, attacked his village and killed his family. Sam explains that Jon had to make a difficult decision, and that they have no chance of defeating the White Walkers without help from the wildlings.
In Winterfell

Theon Greyjoy/Reek brings food to Sansa, who remains locked in her chamber. She asks Reek why he told Ramsay about her escape plans, and Reek replies that there is no escape from Ramsay. When he tries to leave, Sansa confronts him about murdering Bran and Rickon, but Reek confesses that he was unable to find them, and killed two farm boys instead before burning their bodies and passing off the remains as those of the Stark children. Hearing this revelation, Sansa finds hope once again.

In the great hall, Roose Bolton and his advisors plan for battle with Stannis's army. Roose plans to wait out the invaders, noting that with Winterfell fully repaired and supplied, they are better prepared for a siege than Stannis. Ramsay insists that the Boltons should take the fight to Stannis as a statement to the rest of the North, and asks his father for twenty good men.
In Meereen

Jorah and Tyrion are brought before Daenerys, who asks Tyrion why he should be allowed to live and serve her. Tyrion explains that he understands how politics work in King's Landing, and would be of great service to her due to his experience as former Hand of the King. Tyrion also convinces Daenerys to spare Jorah's life, though he tells her that Jorah should not be allowed to serve her, and she orders Jorah exiled from Meereen again. Later, Daenerys tells Tyrion that she will not have him killed or exiled, and intends to allow him to advise her. She also tells him about reclaiming the Iron Throne, her birthright. When she claims that the common people of Westeros will support her claim, Tyrion points out that her rule of Meereen has not gone smoothly with only the support of the common people, and tells her that she will not succeed without the backing of a powerful Westerosi house. She compares the powerful houses of Westeros to spokes on a wheel and says that she intends to "break the wheel".

Meanwhile, Jorah returns to Yezzan zo Qaggaz and asks that he be allowed to fight in front of Daenerys in the fighting pits.
At Hardhome

Arriving at Hardhome, Jon, Tormund, and a group of Night's Watch brothers meet with the Lord of Bones, who has become the de facto leader of the wildlings. After a tense standoff, Tormund kills the Lord of Bones and orders his advisors to gather the elders, including Wildling leader Karsi. At the meeting, Jon shares the dragonglass with the wildlings, telling them how Sam killed a White Walker with a dragonglass dagger. Jon offers to allow the wildlings to farm the lands south of the Wall if they will aid the Night's Watch in the coming war against the White Walkers. When asked what became of Mance Rayder, Jon admits that he killed him. Outraged, the assembled wildlings move to kill Jon, but Tormund is able to calm them by explaining that Jon killed Mance out of mercy. After more discussion, Jon and Tormund are able to convince roughly 5,000 wildlings to come with them, though the Thenns, led by Loboda, refuse to join them.

While loading the ships with wildlings, Hardhome is attacked by an army of wights. Jon and the Night's Watch brothers assist in the defense of Hardhome, helping defend the walls from wight attacks. Jon and Tormund see several White Walkers observing the battle, and Jon moves to recover the bag of dragonglass weapons. Entering a large hut, Jon and Loboda are attacked by a White Walker, who easily kills Loboda before moving on to Jon. Jon is attacked before he can recover the dragonglass, and manages to escape the hut. The White Walker pursues him and they fight, but the Walker is momentarily stunned when he is unable to break Jon's Valyrian steel sword Longclaw, and Jon manages to kill him. His victory is short-lived, as the walls surrounding Hardhome fall to the wights and Jon and his remaining allies are forced to flee. As Jon returns to the boats, he witnesses the Night King reviving the dead, including Karsi and many of the wildlings and the Night's Watch, as wights. 
