In King's Landing

The icy relationship between newly married Tyrion and Sansa is thawing slightly, as they banter about their shared status as outcasts. At a Small Council meeting, Tyrion learns of the deaths of Robb and Catelyn Stark during the Red Wedding. King Joffrey orders Robb's head brought to King's Landing, planning to gift it to Sansa, the prospect of which makes Tyrion threaten Joffrey. Joffrey angrily threatens Tyrion in return, and insults Tywin when he reprimands him. Tywin, showing Joffrey he does not fear him, orders he be taken to his room and sedated. Tywin and Tyrion later discuss the murder at the Twins, and the appointment of Roose Bolton as the Warden of the North, until the son of Tyrion and Sansa is of age. Tywin dismisses Tyrion's warning that the northerners will neither forget nor forgive the role the Lannisters played in the Red Wedding. Tywin then chastises Tyrion for not having impregnated Sansa. Tyrion finds Sansa in his bedroom, staring forlornly out the window with a tear-stained face, revealing she has already received the grim news.

Elsewhere, Lord Varys and Shae discuss their shared eastern heritage, Tyrion's marriage to Sansa, and its effect on Shae. Varys gives Shae a bag of diamonds in the hopes that she will sail for Essos and make a new life for herself, freeing Tyrion from danger and allowing him to focus on making the capital a better place, but Shae refuses the offer and believes Varys was sent by Tyrion. At night, Queen Cersei visits Tyrion and tells him to give Sansa a child, as it will make Sansa happy as it did for Cersei when Joffrey was born.

Jaime, Brienne, and Qyburn arrive in King's Landing, and Jaime immediately goes to see Cersei.
At the Twins

Shortly after the murder of their king, the loyal Stark bannermen fight a losing battle with the Freys outside the walls of the Twins. "The Hound" Sandor Clegane and Arya are horrified to witness several Frey soldiers parade Robb's decapitated corpse around the entrance to the keep with the head of Robb's wolf, Grey Wind, attached to it. Later, Arya and the Hound come upon four Frey men discussing the murder of the Starks. Arya slips off the horse and brutally kills one of the soldiers who claimed to have desecrated Robb's body. Before his allies can aid him, the Hound steps in and easily kills them.

The morning after the wedding, Walder Frey and Roose Bolton discuss the previous night's events, the escape of the "Blackfish" Brynden Tully, and their new positions as Lord of Riverrun and Warden of the North, respectively. When Walder asks Bolton what happened during the fall of Winterfell, Bolton explains that he sent his bastard son, Ramsay Snow to take the castle back from the Greyjoys. Bolton's plan to offer the Ironborn safe passage in exchange for surrendering Theon worked, but Ramsay flayed and killed the surrendering Ironborn despite his father intending the offer be made in good faith.
In the North

Bran, Hodor, Meera Reed, and Jojen arrive at the abandoned Nightfort. Later, Bran is awakened by a sound, and wakes his companions. They meet Samwell Tarly and Gilly; Sam deduces Bran's identity, seeing his direwolf. Bran asks Sam to take them north of the Wall, and though Sam protests the idea, he eventually takes them through the passage. Before they separate, Sam gives the group the rest of his dragonglass supply, and tells them that it has the power to kill White Walkers. Sam and Gilly later arrive at Castle Black, where they present themselves to Maester Aemon, who allows Gilly and her baby to stay. Aemon, on hearing the recount of events, orders all the ravens be sent with messages warning the return of the White Walkers.

Riding back to the Wall, Jon stops to wash his wounds when he hears Ygritte draw her bow. He tries to talk her out of shooting him, but when he turns to leave, she fires three arrows into him. Jon manages to escape, later arriving at Castle Black and passing out from his wounds. The Night's Watch brothers take him in, where Sam and Pyp identify him so that he is cared for.

At the Dreadfort, Ramsay Snow, the true identity of the mysterious boy, taunts Theon about his castration. When Theon begs Ramsay to kill him and end his suffering, Ramsay simply replies that he is more valuable alive, before giving him the nickname "Reek", and beating him until he acknowledges his new name.
On the Iron Islands

Lord Balon Greyjoy reads a letter sent from Ramsay Snow, crudely detailing his demands to have the Ironborn soldiers withdraw from the region of the North under his control, threatening to flay the soldiers if they do not comply. It is also revealed in the letter that Ramsay broke his promise and flayed the 20 ironborn that betrayed Theon in Winterfell. Ramsay also sends a box containing Theon's severed penis, adding that he could further dismember Balon's son. To the protests of his daughter Yara, Balon plans to refuse the offer and allow Theon's torture to continue. Yara disobeys her father's decision and takes 50 of the Ironborn's best men and the fastest ship available to march on the Dreadfort.
At Dragonstone

In the dungeons, Davos visits Gendry and tries to relate to him by telling the story of how he became a lord. Later, Davos practises his reading with Princess Shireen, when he reads the letter sent by the Night's Watch. When they hear the bells ringing, Davos leaves Shireen to meet with Stannis and Melisandre. Stannis informs Davos of Robb Stark's death, which he attributes to Melisandre's ritualistic burning of the leeches. Melisandre plans to burn Gendry as a sacrifice to the Lord of Light, and although Davos tries to get Stannis to spare Gendry, Stannis orders him to be sacrificed. At night, Davos frees Gendry from the dungeons and gives him a boat to escape Dragonstone.

Afterward, Stannis and Melisandre ask Davos if he freed Gendry, which he does not deny. Stannis orders Davos to be executed, but Davos tells Stannis that he will need his assistance. When Stannis asks why he would need Davos' help, Davos shows him the letter sent from the Wall. Melisandre burns the letter, and in the fire sees the war coming in the North. She tells Stannis that only he can save the North, and he will need Davos's help to do so, thus preventing his execution.
Across the Narrow Sea
Outside Yunkai, Daenerys, her advisors, and her Unsullied army stand ready to greet the slaves of the city and free them. When they arrive, Missandei tells them that Daenerys has freed them, but Daenerys tells the slaves that only they can take their freedom back. The crowd begins to chant "mhysa", which Missandei tells Daenerys is Ghiscari for "mother". Daenerys passes her army to walk amongst the freed slaves, who lift her to their shoulders. Daenerys smiles and looks up into the sky as her dragons fly freely. 
