In King's Landing

Tommen Baratheon is crowned as king. Afterward, Cersei Lannister and Margaery Tyrell talk about Joffrey's nature, and how Tommen may be the first truly deserving king Westeros has had in decades. In council with her father Tywin, Cersei decides that Tommen and Margaery will marry in a fortnight. They also make plans for Cersei's wedding to Loras Tyrell, and discuss how the gold mines in the Westerlands have run dry. Tywin tells Cersei that the crown is deeply indebted to the Iron Bank of Braavos, and that the union of the houses of Lannister and Tyrell will help rectify this problem. Cersei also tries to influence Tywin into declaring Tyrion guilty in his upcoming trial. In the gardens, Cersei speaks to Oberyn Martell about her daughter, Myrcella Baratheon. She asks him to take a ship back to Sunspear as a gift for Myrcella, which he agrees to do.
In the Vale

Lord Petyr Baelish and Sansa Stark arrive in the Vale of Arryn. At the Bloody Gate, he tells Ser Donnel Waynwood that Sansa's name is Alayne, hiding her true identity as she is still wanted in King's Landing for Joffrey's murder. Upon their arrival they are received by Lady Lysa Arryn and her son, Robin. Lysa is aware of Sansa's true identity, and has Robin show her to her chamber. When they have gone, Lysa expresses her desire to marry Petyr that day, and speaks of what she has done for him, including poisoning her previous husband, Lord Jon Arryn, and accusing the Lannisters in her letter to Catelyn. In order to quiet her, Petyr agrees to marry her as soon as possible. At night, Lysa and Sansa talk about Catelyn, and how Petyr loved her. Their conversation grows tense, with Lysa accusing Sansa of having seduced Petyr, but is eventually convinced by Sansa that she is a virgin and that Baelish feels little but contempt for Sansa. Lysa tells Sansa that once Tyrion Lannister has been executed, she will be married to Robin.
In Meereen

News of Joffrey's death reaches Daenerys Targaryen. At a meeting with her council, Daario Naharis announces that his forces have taken the Meereenese navy, and Daenerys expresses her desire to use the ships to invade Westeros. While her advisers are optimistic about her chances of seizing King's Landing, Ser Jorah Mormont warns her that may not be enough to conquer the Seven Kingdoms. He also informs Daenerys that both Astapor and Yunkai have fallen back into old habits, with Yunkai again being ruled by slavers and Astapor now being ruled by a self-declared "imperial majesty". After seeking advice from Jorah, she tells him that instead of sailing to Westeros, she intends to stay for now and rule Slaver's Bay as a queen.
On the Kingsroad

Brienne of Tarth and her squire, Podrick Payne, ride toward the Wall, believing they may find Sansa there with Jon Snow. At camp, Brienne scolds Podrick for not knowing how to cook or do a squire's proper duties. When asked what he did for Tyrion, Podrick tells her that he once killed a knight of the Kingsguard to protect Tyrion during the Battle of the Blackwater. Impressed, Brienne finally relents by letting Podrick assist her with her armor.
In the Riverlands

Arya and Sandor "The Hound" Clegane discuss her ritualistic reciting of the names of people she intends to kill and Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane's appearance on the list. Arya reveals that the Hound's name is on her list as well. In the morning, the Hound finds Arya training with her sword. He insults her swordplay and the man who taught it to her, Syrio Forel, expressing incredulity that Forel was killed by a fighter as weak as Ser Meryn Trant. The Hound challenges Arya to demonstrate her abilities by attacking him, but his armor easily repels her jab and he knocks her to the ground, telling her that her fighting style is useless against armored opponents.
Beyond the Wall

Locke scouts Craster's Keep, and witnesses Rast beating one of Craster's former wives. When he sneaks inside the encampment, he sees Bran Stark and his group held captive in a small hut. When Locke returns to the group led by Jon Snow, he counsels that they should strike soon, as the mutineers are drunk. However, he lies that the hut where Bran is imprisoned contains dogs which will give the alarm if the group ventures too close. Jon informs his group that they will attack the Keep at sundown.

Later, Karl Tanner enters the hut and attempts to rape Meera Reed, but Jojen Reed stalls him by revealing his greenseeing abilities and taunting Karl that he has foreseen Karl's body burning. Shouting outside draws Karl away as Jon's group arrives to attack the mutineers. A battle ensues in which several mutineers are killed. Locke slips away from the fight unnoticed to see to Bran and his friends. He cuts Bran's ties and his leg, appearing threatening as he picks him up to take him away; Bran uses his warg abilities to enter Hodor's mind and have Hodor pull free of his chains as Locke carries him outside. Bran, now using Hodor's body, chases down Locke and kills him by snapping his neck. He then returns to his own body and instructs Hodor to free Jojen and Meera, as well as the captive direwolves. Though Bran wishes to reunite with Jon, Jojen tells him that Jon will try to stop his journey north, and the group departs the encampment unseen.

Jon enters the Keep and fights Karl. Though Karl nearly kills Jon due to his dirty fighting style, he is distracted by one of Craster's widows stabbing him in the back. Turning to kill her, Karl is suddenly killed himself as Jon shoves his sword through the back of Karl's head and out his mouth. While counting the dead, Edd notices that Rast is missing. Rast has fled through the woods, but is killed by Jon's direwolf Ghost before the latter returns to his master. Jon asks Craster's wives to come to the Wall, but they decline his offer, due to their mistrust of the Night's Watch. Jon and the Night's Watch then burn Craster's Keep and the bodies of the dead, ensuring that they can't be resurrected as wights. 
