At the Wall

Sansa Stark confronts Petyr Baelish about his decision to marry her to Ramsay Bolton. He explains that he was ignorant of Ramsay's cruelty and begs for forgiveness. In exchange, he offers her the support of the Vale in her attempt to retake Winterfell from the Boltons, but Sansa declines. As he leaves, Littlefinger reveals that her great-uncle, the Blackfish, has retaken Riverrun with the Tully army; Sansa orders Brienne of Tarth to go and recruit the Blackfish for their cause.
In Vaes Dothrak

Jorah Mormont reveals his greyscale to Daenerys Targaryen. He admits his love for her, and Daenerys orders him to find a cure and return to her so he can be by her side when she conquers Westeros.
On the Iron Islands

At the Kingsmoot, Yara makes her claim to the Salt Throne, with Theon Greyjoy supporting her claim. Their uncle Euron Greyjoy arrives to stake his own claim, and when Yara accuses him of killing their father, Euron freely admits to it. He promises to conquer Westeros by marrying Daenerys, and offering her the Iron Fleet. He is subsequently chosen as King. Theon and Yara flee with the best ships of the Iron Fleet; Euron orders the Ironborn to begin construction of a new fleet.
In Braavos

Jaqen H'ghar offers Arya Stark the assignment of killing an actress named Lady Crane, who is playing Cersei Lannister in a play recounting the deaths of Robert Baratheon and Ned Stark. Arya is noticeably distressed by the play's portrayal of Ned.
In Meereen

Tyrion and Varys note that peace has fallen over Meereen since they forged their pact with the Masters. In order to preserve this, Tyrion summons the red priestess Kinvara, who agrees to preach to the people that Daenerys is the chosen one of the Lord of Light. She also claims to know what originally happened to Varys and why.
Beyond the Wall

Bran Stark and the Three-eyed Raven observe a vision of the Children of the Forest creating the Night King by impaling a man with a dragonglass dagger. Bran subsequently confronts Leaf, one of the Children, about creating the White Walkers. She explains that they were at war with the First Men, and had no choice. Bran decides to observe a vision without the Three-Eyed Raven. He witnesses a massive army of wights led by the Night King, who touches him whilst in the vision. Bran awakens to find a mark where he was touched, and the Three-Eyed Raven warns that he must leave, as the Night King is now able to find them.

The Three-Eyed Raven begins transferring knowledge to Bran as the army of wights arrives. While in a vision of Winterfell, Bran hears the cries of Meera Reed who is trying to save Bran's body while the Children hold back the wights. The Three-Eyed Raven advises Bran to listen to her, and Bran splits his consciousness by both remaining in the vision of the past and simultaneously warging into Hodor in the present. The Night King enters the cave and kills the Three-Eyed Raven. As Bran, Meera and Hodor make their escape, Leaf, and Bran's direwolf, Summer, sacrifice themselves to hold back the wights. Hodor closes the hideout's door behind them, keeping the wights inside while Meera escapes with Bran. Meera repeatedly orders Hodor to "hold the door" shut while they flee, which results in the Wights tearing him apart. In the vision, Bran becomes overwhelmed by the split consciousness and unintentionally wargs into a younger version of Hodor in the vision, then known as Wylis, forging a connection between the past and present. With Bran's consciousness inside his head, Wylis suffers a seizure while hearing the echoes of Meera's orders and he begins to yell the words "hold the door" over and over, until they slur together and "Hodor" is all that's left that he can say. 
