On the Roseroad

Bronn pulls Jaime ashore, across the Blackwater Rush from the battle. They recognize that the Lannisters could never overcome Daenerys's three dragons in battle.

Daenerys gives the surviving Lannister and Tarly soldiers a choice between fealty to her, or death. Randyll Tarly resists; his son Dickon stands with him, even though Randyll wants him to save himself. Tyrion urges Daenerys to spare them and send them to the Wall, but the Tarlys refuse to go to the Wall. So, Daenerys keeps her word and puts them to death with Drogon's fire. The remaining prisoners bend the knee.
At Winterfell

Through ravens' eyes, Bran locates the Night King's army beyond the Wall. He requests that ravens be sent throughout the Seven Kingdoms to warn of the threat.

Arya witnesses Sansa diplomatically decline Lord Glover and Lord Royce's suggestion that Sansa should rule the North. Arya privately accuses Sansa of wanting to displace Jon. Littlefinger allows Arya to watch him hide the raven scroll Cersei forced Sansa to write after King Robert died, asking Robb to swear fealty to King Joffrey; Arya obtains and reads it.
In Oldtown

Archmaester Ebrose receives Bran's raven and discusses the message with other Archmaesters. Samwell, unaware of the recent deaths of his father and brother, interrupts to vouch for Bran, and asks the Archmaesters to use the Citadel's authority to prepare Westeros for war against the undead. Archmaester Ebrose decides the matter needs further study.

Sam transcribes a High Septon's minutiae-laden journal as Gilly reads from it. Sam rages that he is tired of reading about "better men's" achievements, so he steals documents from the library and leaves Oldtown with Gilly and Little Sam.
On Dragonstone

Daenerys returns and Drogon allows Jon to pet him. Jorah has returned and Daenerys welcomes him. Varys and Tyrion privately discuss the brutality of Daenerys's executions, and the morality of serving a ruler who puts others to death (as Varys did for the Mad King). Varys implores Tyrion to make Daenerys listen.

Jon and Davos attend Daenerys's meeting with her advisors. Jon receives Bran's warning, and decides to head beyond the Wall to fight the dead. Daenerys notes how few fighters he has, and Jon again requests her help. She refuses, because leaving her war against Cersei would mean conceding the Iron Throne to her. Tyrion proposes capturing a wight north of the Wall and bringing it to King's Landing, to show Cersei the danger and gain her support. Jon and Jorah volunteer for the mission.

Tyrion and Davos return from King's Landing with Gendry. Davos advises him to conceal his identity and become a smith at Winterfell; Gendry instead introduces himself openly to Jon and joins his excursion.
In King's Landing

Jaime returns to Cersei and declares the war unwinnable for the Lannisters. He reveals that Olenna Tyrell poisoned Joffrey, exonerating Tyrion. Cersei regrets Olenna's painless death.

Tyrion and Davos sneak into King's Landing via a smugglers' cove. Bronn leads Jaime to Tyrion, who requests an audience with Cersei once Jon can prove that the army of the dead exists. Jaime conveys Tyrion's message; Cersei doubts Tyrion's warning, but believes she and Jaime will defeat any enemy. Cersei acknowledges that a temporary ceasefire could be a strategic necessity for her. She also tells Jaime that she is pregnant and will publicly acknowledge him as the father.

Davos locates Gendry, who eagerly leaves King's Landing with him. Two gold cloaks discover Davos's boat; he bribes them, but Tyrion returns and they recognize him, so Gendry kills them. The three depart.
At Eastwatch-by-the-Sea
Jon, Davos, Gendry and Jorah meet with Tormund at the Night Watch fortress Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, where the Brotherhood Without Banners and the Hound are imprisoned. The disparate men discuss their enmities, but acknowledge that they are now fighting against a common enemy; Davos remains at Eastwatch and all the others head north. 
