In King's Landing

Lord Eddard Stark begins quietly inquiring into the death of Jon Arryn, the previous Hand of the King, who had long served as the Kingdom's chief administrative nobleman. Questioning Grand Maester Pycelle, who tended Jon Arryn in his final days, Stark learns that Arryn's last words were "the seed is strong" and that he was reading a book titled The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms.

Helped by Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish and his net of informers, Eddard follows up on two more clues regarding the last days of his predecessor. He questions a smith's apprentice whom Jon Arryn had visited in his last days and, due to his resemblance to King Robert, Stark deduces that the boy is the king's bastard. Eddard also plans to question Jon Arryn's former squire, but the recently knighted young man is killed while jousting at the tournament held in Eddard's honor. The knight responsible for his untimely end is Ser Gregor Clegane, also known as "The Mountain" due to his towering size. He is a Lannister bannerman and is the older brother of "The Hound" Sandor Clegane. Baelish tells Sansa the secret of the Clegane brothers: as children, Gregor brutally burned his brother's face, thus explaining the Hound's scars.
In Vaes Dothrak

Khal Drogo's khalasar arrives at the city of Vaes Dothrak. Viserys Targaryen impatiently waits for the army Drogo agreed to lend him, the bride price offered for his sister Daenerys, to reconquer the Seven Kingdoms. When Viserys misinterprets Daenerys's invitation to dinner as an order, he becomes angry and strikes her. For the first time, Daenerys fights back, hitting her astounded brother and promising that if he raises a hand against her again, his hands will be cut off. Later, the banished knight Jorah Mormont tells her that Viserys would not be a good leader for the invasion of Westeros and, despite what Viserys believes, the people of the Seven Kingdoms do not care who rules them as long as they are ruled well. Daenerys agrees that Viserys could not conquer the Seven Kingdoms even if Khal Drogo gave him an entire army.
At the Wall

The Night's Watch receives Samwell Tarly, a fat, fearful and clumsy recruit who rapidly becomes the focus of bullying by master-at-arms Ser Alliser Thorne. Sam later explains to Jon that his father forced him to "take the Black" and forsake his inheritance because he considered Sam unworthy, threatening to kill Sam and pass his death off as a hunting accident if he refused.[3] JonSnow defends Sam and convinces the rest of the recruits not to harm him, much to Thorne's rage. Thorne defends his treatment as essential, since life north of the Wall is very harsh especially during winter, warning Jon and Sam to toughen up or they will have no chance of survival.
In the North

Tyrion stops at Winterfell as he is returning to King's Landing after his visit to the Wall. He gets a cold welcome from Robb Stark, acting Lord of Winterfell in his father Eddard's absence. Robb suspects the Lannisters are behind his younger brother Bran's fall and the subsequent assassination attempt. Despite the cold reception, Tyrion shows the now crippled Bran an act of kindness by giving him blueprints for a saddle that will allow him to ride again despite his paralysis. Before he leaves Winterfell, Tyrion has a talk with Theon Greyjoy, a ward of House Stark, and mocks him regarding how the Greyjoys and their land, the Iron Islands, attempted a failed rebellion against King Robert, calling Theon a "hostage" to the Stark family.
At the Inn at the Crossroads
Further south, Tyrion and his small retinue stop to spend the night at the Inn at the Crossroads. There he recognizes Lady Catelyn Stark in disguise. With her identity revealed, she requests help from her father's bannermen present at the inn to seize Tyrion to face trial for Bran's attempted murder.
