In King's Landing

Tyrion Lannister and Bronn plan the defense of King's Landing, with the aid of several old texts. When Lord Varys asks how they plan to hold off Stannis Baratheon's ships, Tyrion replies with "pig shit", referencing an earlier meeting with Pyromancer Hallyne and his pots of wildfire.

While dining with his sister Cersei, Tyrion is accused of plotting to have King Joffrey Baratheon killed during the defense of King's Landing. Cersei tells Tyrion that she has kidnapped his prostitute lover and intends to hold her to ensure Joffrey's safety, but when Cersei orders her brought into the room Tyrion discovers that she has mistakenly kidnapped Ros instead of Shae. After promising Ros that he will free her, Tyrion angrily swears to Cersei that she will pay for what she has done.

Later, Tyrion tries to get Joffrey to understand the danger they face, but Joffrey's inexperience and arrogance leave Tyrion fearful for the coming battle. Varys informs Tyrion that Daenerys Targaryen is alive and that she now has three dragons. Tyrion, skeptical about the dragons, says that they will play that "game" later, since Stannis is their main concern now.
At sea

Davos Seaworth and King Stannis plan the siege of King's Landing, during which Stannis decries the disrespect his nobles show to Davos due to his low-born status, despite his excellent service. They recall memories of the siege of the Baratheon ancestral castle Storm's End, during which Stannis held the castle even in the face of starvation, until Davos heroically broke through the siege line with food supplies. Stannis comments on his bitterness over King Robert handing over Storm's End to Renly after the war and not him, and vows that he will aptly reward faithful service by making Davos his Hand once he takes the Iron Throne.
At Harrenhal

Lord Tywin Lannister decides to fight Robb Stark's army now that their attention is on the Greyjoys' capture of Winterfell and departs Harrenhal, leaving Ser Gregor Clegane at its command. Arya Stark tries to have Jaqen H'ghar kill Tywin before he leaves, using the last of three "lives" she was owed, but she is not able to find Jaqen in time. Instead, she decides to ask Jaqen to help them escape. Jaqen explains that an escape would cost more lives than their current bargain, and after some thought, Arya names Jaqen himself. After he asks her to take his name back, she does so on the condition that he help her escape with her friends Gendry and Hot Pie. He tells Arya that the three will be able to walk out safely if they do so at midnight that night. True to his word, Jaqen kills the entire evening's watch guarding the entrance to Harrenhal, allowing the three to escape.
In the Westerlands

King Robb returns from the Crag with Lady Talisa Maegyr and is informed of Jaime Lannister's escape and his mother's involvement. When Robb confronts Catelyn, she admits to having her knight Brienne of Tarth escort Jaime to King's Landing to trade for Sansa and Arya. Angered with his mother's betrayal, Robb has Catelyn placed under guard. Later, Lord Roose Bolton assures Robb that Bolton's bastard son is only a few days from Winterfell; Robb orders that mercy be shown to any surrendering Ironborn except Theon Greyjoy, hoping it will give Theon's men incentive to betray him. Bolton shows distaste with his king's merciful attitude but obeys. Lady Talisa then enters Robb's tent where he confides in her about his problems. After she tells him a story about why she chose to leave Volantis and become a healer, Robb confesses that he does not want to marry one of Lord Walder Frey's daughters. Talisa also wishes the same, and the two consummate their relationship.
Beyond the Wall

Jon Snow is presented to the Lord of Bones by Ygritte and her companions. The Lord of Bones wants Jon killed, but Ygritte convinces him otherwise by saying that Mance Rayder will want to meet Eddard Stark's bastard son. Qhorin Halfhand, who was also captured, tells Jon he should pretend to defect to Mance's army so the Night's Watch can learn about Mance's plans. To make Jon's defection look real, Qhorin starts a fight with Jon.

At the Fist of the First Men, Samwell Tarly and Grenn discover an ancient Night's Watch cloak, which contains a strange horn and a cache of dragonglass weapons.
In Qarth

Ser Jorah Mormont advises Daenerys Targaryen to leave the dragons behind and to flee Qarth for Astapor, but she refuses to leave without her dragons. Daenerys asks Jorah to take her to the House of the Undying, where the warlock Pyat Pree has said they are being kept, and Jorah reluctantly obeys.
At Winterfell

Theon Greyjoy orders the messenger ravens be killed, so word of the deaths of Bran and Rickon Stark will not leave Winterfell. Soon after, Yara Greyjoy arrives with a few riders, which angers Theon, who had ordered his sister to send 500 men to help him hold the castle. Yara reveals she has come to Winterfell to bring him back home because his decision to execute the Stark boys will only bring the wrath of all the North down on his head. Despite Yara's pleas, Theon refuses because he fears that he will be seen as a coward if he abandons Winterfell.

Maester Luwin sees the wildling Osha stealing bread and retreating to the crypts beneath Winterfell. He follows her and discovers that both Bran and Rickon are alive and well. Osha explains that after reaching the farm, they had doubled back to Winterfell itself to evade Theon's patrols. Luwin deduces that Theon's men murdered a farming family and burned their sons' bodies in the Stark boys' stead. He asks Osha to keep it from Bran since he would blame himself, but Bran overhears their conversation. 
