At the Wall

Gilly has a tense conversation with one of the prostitutes at Mole's Town, before the village is attacked by Styr, Tormund Giantsbane, and the other wildlings. Gilly is discovered by Ygritte, but Ygritte notices Gilly's baby and spares them. News of the attack reaches the Wall, where Samwell laments his decision to move Gilly to Mole's Town, and ponders whether she is still alive. With Mance Rayder's attack on the Wall imminent, the men of the Night's Watch contemplate their chances against the wildling horde.
At Moat Cailin

Ramsay Snow rehearses his plan with Reek, who will be masquerading as his former self, Theon Greyjoy. Riding a horse with a white flag, Theon enters Moat Cailin and is received by Ralf Kenning. Theon gives him the terms for their surrender, which Kenning intends to decline, before he is killed by one of his own men, who assumes command and accepts the terms. However, after the Ironborn open the Moat's gates, Ramsay and his army flay and slaughter them. As a reward for retaking the Moat, Lord Roose Bolton legitimizes Ramsay as a true Bolton. The Boltons, their army, and Reek then depart for their new seat at Winterfell.
In Meereen

Missandei catches Grey Worm watching her bathe. Although she protects her modesty after seeing him, she later seeks advice from Daenerys and expresses a desire to have a relationship with him. However, as all Unsullied are made eunuchs at an early age a relationship is practically impossible. Speaking with Missandei later, Grey Worm admits that he is not sorry that he was castrated, as had he not become Unsullied he would have never met her.

Later, Ser Barristan receives a letter sealed with the Hand of the King's seal. He shows it to Ser Jorah, explaining that it is a royal pardon signed by Robert Baratheon, in exchange for spying on Daenerys. After Jorah admits his spying to Daenerys, she exiles him.
In the Vale

Having murdered Lysa Arryn, Petyr Baelish is interrogated by Lord Yohn Royce and a few of the nobility of the Vale. Petyr claims that Lysa committed suicide by jumping through the Moon Door, but they do not trust him, citing his brothels in King's Landing and his foreign blood. Royce demands to speak with Sansa, who is acting as Petyr's niece, Alayne. Sansa appears to crumble under the pressure of the situation, admitting her true identity to the group, but eventually corroborates Petyr's story, and convinces them of his innocence. As Petyr walks the group out of the Eyrie, he makes plans to have Robin tour the Vale. When Petyr confronts Sansa about her lie to the Lords of the Vale, she tells him that she doesn't know what they would do with her if they executed him for Lysa's death. She also tells Petyr that she knows what he wants. Later, Petyr, Sansa and Robin leave the Eyrie to tour the Vale, with Sansa having dyed her hair black and adopted a new, darker wardrobe to hide her identity.

Meanwhile, Sandor "The Hound" Clegane and Arya walk the narrow path toward the Eyrie. Coming to the Bloody Gate, they are informed of Lady Arryn's death by Donnel Waynwood. Arya, rather than mourn the loss of her aunt, breaks into hysterical laughter at the irony of their situation.
In King's Landing
Shortly before his trial by combat is to begin, Tyrion discusses his chances with his brother, Jaime. When Tyrion is taken outside, he has a brief conversation with his champion, Oberyn, who is confident. Ser Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane arrives shortly thereafter, and the trial commences. During the fight, Oberyn demands the Mountain admit to raping and murdering his sister, Elia, and her two children. Oberyn lands several skillful attacks on the Mountain, seemingly toying with the much larger man. He knocks the Mountain to the ground and lands a near-fatal blow. Oberyn then screams at the Mountain to confess, hoping the Mountain will admit that it was Tywin who gave the order. As Oberyn circles him, he lets his guard down and the Mountain knocks him to the ground, then gouges out his eyes while confessing to the murder of Elia and her children, and subsequently crushes Oberyn's skull with his hands, killing him instantly. The Mountain then collapses to the ground from his wounds. Tywin rises and sentences Tyrion to death for regicide. 
