In King's Landing

On the day of Cersei Lannister's and Loras Tyrell's trials, the High Sparrow and the Faith gather in the Great Sept. Loras confesses to his crimes and atones by giving up his name and title, and joins the Faith Militant. In the Red Keep, Cersei remains in her chambers, while Qyburn summons Grand Maester Pycelle to his laboratory, where his child spies stab Pycelle to death.

After Cersei fails to appear, Lancel Lannister is sent to retrieve her. Lancel follows one of Cersei's spies beneath the Sept, and finds a wildfire cache about to explode. He is stabbed in the spine before he can disarm the cache. Inside the Sept, Margaery Tyrell, realizing that Cersei has set a trap, warns the crowd to leave, but the High Sparrow prevents anyone from leaving. The wildfire ignites and destroys the Great Sept, killing everyone inside. King Tommen Baratheon witnesses the explosion from the Red Keep and commits suicide by jumping out of a window.

As Jaime Lannister and Bronn return from the Riverlands, they view the burning ruins of the Great Sept. Jaime subsequently arrives at the Red Keep to witness Cersei being crowned Queen of the Seven Kingdoms.
At Oldtown

As Samwell Tarly and Gilly arrive at Oldtown, they witness the Citadel releasing countless white ravens to announce the arrival of winter. They report to the Citadel, and Sam is scheduled to meet the Archmaester. In the meantime, Sam is granted access to the library.
At Winterfell

Davos Seaworth confronts Melisandre about Shireen's death. Melisandre admits to burning Shireen alive, but points out that she did it for the Lord of Light. Davos rebuts by saying that Stannis was defeated anyway and that Melisandre's actions were all for naught, forcing her to admit that she was wrong. Davos requests permission from Jon Snow to execute Melisandre, but she counters that she will be useful in the coming war against the White Walkers. Jon exiles Melisandre from the North and threatens to execute her if she ever returns. Later, Jon and Sansa Stark discuss who will lead the united Stark forces, with each deferring to the other.

Petyr Baelish, Lord Protector of The Vale, privately meets with Sansa in the godswood. He reveals that his ultimate goal is to sit on the Iron Throne with Sansa at his side. Sansa rejects his offer and leaves.

Later, Jon gathers the various Northern lords, the Knights of the Vale, and the Free Folk to plan for the fight against the White Walkers. Lady Lyanna Mormont, leader of Bear Island, shames the handful of Northern lords that did not come to Jon's aid. The Northern lords, Knights of the Vale, and Free Folk declare a reluctant Jon the new King in the North.
In Dorne

A grieving Olenna Tyrell meets with Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes concerning the possibility of an alliance against Cersei. To Olenna's surprise, Ellaria presents Varys, who offers Olenna vengeance by allying with Daenerys Targaryen.
At the Twins

Walder Frey celebrates the recapture of Riverrun with the Lannisters. Later, Walder eats dinner alone, wondering why his sons have yet to arrive. His servant reveals that she baked them into the meat pie he has been eating, and then removes her face to reveal that she is actually Arya Stark who then slits Walder's throat.
Beyond the Wall

Bran Stark, Meera Reed, and Benjen Stark arrive near the Wall. Benjen takes his leave, stating that the Wall's magical protection prevents the dead (and therefore, him) from being able to pass. Meera assists Bran to a weirwood tree and he re-enters the vision of Ned Stark at the Tower of Joy. Ned finds his sister Lyanna Stark covered in blood from childbirth. With her dying breath, Lyanna pleads with Ned to take care of her son, who is revealed to be Jon Snow.
In Meereen
Daenerys Targaryen informs Daario Naharis that he will not accompany her to Westeros. Daenerys proclaims Tyrion Lannister the Hand of the Queen, and the two of them, along with their extensive forces from Essos and their new alliances of the Ironborn, Dorne, and Highgarden, depart for Westeros in a massive armada, with her dragons flying above. 
