In King's Landing

Tyrion Lannister tries to hide Shae in the kitchens as a scullery maid, but she refuses. Queen Regent Cersei Lannister eats dinner with Sansa Stark, Princess Myrcella Baratheon, and Prince Tommen Baratheon, where they discuss the war, and Sansa's betrothal to King Joffrey Baratheon. Afterwards, Sansa is greeted by Shae, who is posing as her new handmaiden.

Later, Tyrion tells Grand Maester Pycelle of his plans to forge an alliance with House Martell by marrying Myrcella to Doran Martell's youngest son Trystane. Soon after, he has the same discussion with Lord Varys; however, in this version, he plans to marry Myrcella to Theon Greyjoy. Finally, he has the same discussion once more, with Lord Petyr Baelish, this time having Myrcella marry Robin Arryn. In all three cases, Tyrion makes them swear to keep the discussion a secret, especially from the Queen. Cersei later confronts Tyrion about sending Myrcella to the Martells, confirming that Pycelle is Cersei's spy; Tyrion has him arrested and sent to the dungeons, but not before Pycelle confesses that he told Cersei that Jon Arryn knew of her incest with Jaime. When Baelish realizes he has been fooled, he angrily confronts Tyrion, who is nevertheless able to convince him to meet Catelyn Stark in the Stormlands and convince her to release Jaime.
Beyond the Wall

Craster returns with Jon Snow and orders the Night's Watch off his lands. Lord Commander Jeor Mormont admits to Jon that he already knew of Craster's sacrificial offering of his sons, arguing that he is an indispensable part of the Night's Watch's campaign beyond the Wall.
At Winterfell

Bran Stark has another dream in which he is his direwolf, Summer. When he asks Maester Luwin about the dreams, Luwin replies that while he studied magic as a boy, he believes that magic is no longer real, the dragons are dead, and dreams do not always come true.
In the Stormlands

Self-crowned King Renly Baratheon and his newly-wedded wife Margaery Tyrell watch a tournament in which Margaery's brother Loras, the Knight of Flowers, battles with the imposing female warrior Brienne of Tarth. Catelyn arrives in time to see Brienne win. Brienne requests a place in Renly's Kingsguard, and Renly immediately agrees, to Loras' annoyance. Renly is confident his army of 100,000 can beat the Lannisters, but Catelyn reminds him his men are still inexperienced. Later, Loras refuses to have sex with Renly until he consummates his marriage with Margaery. When Renly is unable, Margaery reveals that she is fully aware of her husband's relationship with her brother, but insists that they keep trying in order to get her pregnant and secure the alliance between the Baratheons and the Tyrells.
On the Iron Islands

Balon Greyjoy plans his war on the North with his daughter Yara and son Theon. Theon protests in favor of an alliance with the Starks, but Balon refuses and reminds him that Greyjoys "do not sow". Yara tells Theon he must now choose where his loyalty lies: with his adopted family, the Starks, or his real family, the Greyjoys. A conflicted Theon writes a letter to Robb Stark warning him of Balon's plans to attack the North, but burns it, deciding to instead serve under his father. As a sign of his newfound loyalty, he undergoes a ritual baptism in the name of the Iron Islands' primary deity, the Drowned God.
In the Riverlands
Yoren tells Arya Stark the story of how he became a member of the Night's Watch. Soon, they are startled by a nearby war horn. Lannister bannerman Ser Amory Lorch demands Yoren hand over Gendry. When Yoren refuses, a battle ensues, and Yoren and his men are killed. During the skirmish, Arya helps the prisoner Jaqen H'ghar free himself and the other two captives in the cage before they can be burned alive, and loses her sword Needle to a Lannister soldier, Polliver. Lorch orders the survivors taken to Harrenhal, but when wounded Lommy Greenhands says he cannot walk, he is killed by Polliver. Lorch demands the survivors point out Gendry, but before he can give himself up, Arya tells him that Lommy was Gendry. 
