In the Stormlands

King Renly Baratheon and Catelyn Stark negotiate an alliance in his tent with Brienne of Tarth standing guard, when the shadow creature birthed by Melisandre suddenly enters and fatally stabs Renly before disappearing. Two of Renly's guards enter the tent and, taking Brienne for the murderer, attack her. She slays them and is convinced by Catelyn to escape with her so that Brienne may at least avenge Renly someday. During their journey, Brienne swears allegiance to Catelyn, who promises not to interfere with Brienne's vengeance on Stannis Baratheon, whom she believes played a role in Renly's murder.

Meanwhile, Renly's death causes confusion amongst his men. Ser Loras Tyrell also holds Stannis responsible for Renly's death and wants revenge, but Petyr Baelish and Renly's widow Margaery Tyrell convince him that they must escape before Stannis' fleet arrives. As Stannis reaches the camp, his dead brother's bannermen swear fealty to him, but Davos Seaworth warns him to stay away from Melisandre because his men whisper that she is controlling him. Stannis takes Davos's advice not to bring Melisandre with him during his forthcoming assault on King's Landing, and gives a reluctant Davos the command of the fleet in the coming siege of King's Landing.
In King's Landing

Tyrion blackmails more information out of his cousin Lancel, who reveals that Cersei has been stockpiling massive amounts of "wildfire," a dangerous flammable substance. While crossing the city with Bronn, Tyrion is unsurprised at hearing an agitator rail against the incest-born king, but surprised and hurt to hear himself blamed for Joffrey's misdeeds. He visits the royal pyromancer, Wisdom Hallyne, who reveals a secret cache of close to eight thousand pots of wildfire that Joffrey intends to catapult onto Stannis' forces when they attack the city. Bronn doubts the effectiveness of the plan, but Tyrion decides to use it and claims the cache for himself.
At Lordsport

Theon Greyjoy has been made the captain of a single ship, with orders to raid fishing villages on the northern coast. Before even setting sail, Theon's crew openly disrespect him and abandon him on shore. Theon's first mate Dagmer Cleftjaw comes to his assistance and suggests that Theon will need to win the respect of the men with a more impressive deed. When Dagmer proposes an assault on the Northern town of Torrhen's Square, Theon disagrees at first, saying that the raid will attract the attention of Winterfell's forces, but later realizes that Dagmer intends to besiege Torrhen's Square in order to leave Winterfell poorly defended for his takeover.
At Winterfell

Bran receives the news that Torrhen's Square is under assault, and urges Ser Rodrik Cassel to raise a force to defend it. Later he tells Osha of his recent dreams wherein the ocean floods, destroying Winterfell and its inhabitants. He also asks Osha about the "three-eyed raven" that appears in his dreams, but Osha deflects his inquiries.
At the Fist of the First Men

On their trek northwards, the Night's Watch meet up with the legendary ranger Qhorin Halfhand at the Fist of the First Men, an ancient fortification. Qhorin warns that the wildlings have become more organized and dangerous under the leadership of former ranger Mance Rayder (the King Beyond the Wall). With a small party, Qhorin intends to approach and eliminate a wildling watchpost. Jon Snow volunteers to join Qhorin, which he is eventually allowed to do.
In Qarth

Daenerys Targaryen enjoys holding court at Qarth and watching her dragons grow. At a party given by her rich host Xaro Xhoan Daxos, the warlock Pyat Pree invites Daenerys to visit the "House of the Undying," while the masked Quaithe warns Ser Jorah Mormont of dangers that face Daenerys. Later, Xaro asks Daenerys for her hand in marriage in exchange for enough wealth and power to take King's Landing. Jorah vehemently opposes this, arguing that she needs to win the Iron Throne on her own rather than as a perceived foreign puppet. After questioning Jorah's motives, Daenerys eventually hears him out and agrees with him.
At Harrenhal
Arya Stark serves as cupbearer for Lord Tywin Lannister. During a meeting with his lieutenants regarding the war, Tywin deduces that she is a Northerner, but remains unaware of her identity. Later, Arya encounters Jaqen H'ghar, whom she had rescued along with Rorge and Biter, and who is now disguised as a Lannister guardsman. Jaqen offers to return her past favor by offering her "three lives" he will claim for the Red God, as a compensation for the three lives she saved. Arya designates "The Tickler," Harrenhal's cruel interrogator, as her first victim. Soon enough, he is found dead with a broken neck, and Jaqen signals to Arya that the first debt has been paid. 
