In the North

The weather conditions at Stannis Baratheon's camp drastically improve, clearing the route towards Winterfell. Melisandre takes credit, claiming that as a result of Shireen's sacrifice, the Lord of Light has made good on his promise. However, Stannis's officers inform him that Shireen's sacrifice has also prompted half of his army, including all of his mercenaries, to desert him, and driven Selyse to hang herself. Melisandre immediately flees to Castle Black. Despite all of these setbacks, Stannis orders his remaining troops to march forward towards Winterfell. As Stannis's army marches through the Wolfswood, Podrick sees them and warns Brienne, who leaves to take revenge on Stannis.

As Stannis prepares to lay siege on the castle, the Bolton cavalry, led by Ramsay, suddenly emerges. It becomes clear they greatly outnumber Stannis's army; nonetheless, Stannis draws his sword and leads his men into battle. After a quick yet fierce battle, the Boltons emerge as the victors. Stannis survives the destruction of his army, but is severely wounded after fighting several Bolton soldiers. Brienne then arrives and announces her intentions to execute Stannis for the murder of Renly ("The Ghost of Harrenhal"). Stannis accepts his fate, and Brienne executes him.[1][2]

Meanwhile, in Winterfell, Sansa escapes her room using the corkscrew she stole and lights a candle in the ruined tower to signal for help, but Brienne has already left. After witnessing the defeat of the Baratheon army, she tries to return to her room but is confronted by Myranda, who threatens to mutilate Sansa. Theon finally finds his inner strength, and throws Myranda from the castle ramparts to her death, just as the victorious Bolton army returns to Winterfell. Theon and Sansa realize they have to escape at once, and jump from the castle walls into the deep snow below.
In Dorne

Jaime, Myrcella, Bronn and Trystane leave for King's Landing. On the ship, Myrcella reveals that she knows Jaime is her real father and that she is glad that he is her father. However, Myrcella suddenly starts bleeding from the nose and collapses, and it is revealed that Ellaria had secretly poisoned Myrcella by kissing her with poisoned lipstick.
In Braavos

Arya infiltrates the brothel patronized by Ser Meryn Trant by taking one of the faces from the House of Black and White. She stabs Trant multiple times, revealing her true identity and confronting him for the murder of Syrio Forel before cutting his throat. When she returns to the House of Black and White, she is confronted by Jaqen and the Waif. Jaqen berates Arya for taking a life not meant for her to take, and that another life must be taken in order to appease the Many Faced God. Jaqen then proceeds to drink from a vial and collapses, much to Arya's shock. However, the Waif changes her face to that of Jaqen and points out to Arya that "Jaqen" never existed, and that she had been talking to "No One" the entire time. The Waif also warns Arya that putting on a new face if one is not "No One" is like poison, and Arya is struck blind.
In Meereen

With Daenerys missing after having flown away on Drogon, her followers are left unsure of what to do in her absence. Daario and Jorah decide to leave Meereen to search for Daenerys. Tyrion wishes to join them, but Daario points out that he is better suited to govern Meereen in Daenerys's absence, assisted by Missandei and the still-recovering Grey Worm. As Tyrion watches Jorah and Daario leave, he ponders his next move when Varys suddenly appears. Varys compares Meereen's current state to that of King's Landing when it was threatened by Stannis Baratheon, and offers use of his spy network to aid Tyrion. Tyrion wryly remarks that he had missed Varys.
In the Dothraki Sea

Drogon brings Daenerys back to his lair. Daenerys orders Drogon to take her back to Meereen, but Drogon, still exhausted and wounded, ignores her and goes to sleep. Daenerys wanders off on her own to try to find some food, eventually spotting a Dothraki horde advancing in the distance. As the horde comes closer, Daenerys drops a ring to the ground before being surrounded.
In King's Landing

Cersei confesses to committing adultery with her cousin Lancel to the High Sparrow, but denies having slept with Jaime or conspiring to have Robert Baratheon killed. The High Sparrow decides to grant the "Mother's Mercy" and let Cersei return to the Red Keep, but says she must return to face trial for the other sins she has not confessed to, and must undergo an "atonement". Cersei is stripped, her hair cut short, and forced to walk naked the entire way from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep. As she walks, she is relentlessly harassed, jeered and pelted with garbage by the angry populace, ultimately breaking down in tears when she finally returns to the Red Keep. She is covered up by Qyburn, who reveals to her the newest member of the Kingsguard, a re-animated Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane.
At the Wall

Jon sends Samwell to Oldtown to become a maester along with Gilly and her baby, acknowledging (and even somewhat endorsing) the romantic relationship blossoming between Samwell and Gilly. Davos arrives shortly after to ask for supplies and Wildling reinforcements, but Jon refuses, reminding Davos that the Wildlings will never fight for Stannis. Melisandre arrives soon after; her demeanour leads Jon and Davos to realize that Stannis has been defeated and that Shireen and Selyse are dead.

At night, Olly tells Jon that a wildling had recently seen his uncle Benjen Stark, and takes him to speak to him. Led outside to the courtyard, he only finds Ser Alliser, Bowen Marsh, Othell Yarwyck and a handful of men along with a post that reads "Traitor". As Jon realizes that he has been betrayed, Alliser, Bowen, Othell, Olly, and the others take turns stabbing Jon, each uttering "For the Watch". The men leave Jon as he dies alone in the snow. 
