In Braavos

Arya, still in the disguise of an oyster vendor, continues the mission given to her by Jaqen to poison and kill the Thin Man. However, as she is on the way to her target, she sees Mace Tyrell and Meryn Trant arrive in the harbor to negotiate payment terms with the Iron Bank. Arya, recognising Trant, ignores her mission and follows Mace and Trant into the city. She eventually tracks Trant to a brothel, where she learns that he is sexually attracted to pubescent girls. Upon returning to Jaqen, Arya lies to him by telling him the Thin Man was not hungry and did not buy her oysters, and asks to try again the next day. Jaqen allows this, though it is unclear whether he believes Arya or not.
At the Wall

Jon and Tormund return to Castle Black, accompanied by the surviving Night's Watch and wildlings from Hardhome. Alliser, despite his disagreements with Jon, orders the gate to be opened to let them pass. Jon believes that his mission was a failure, though Samwell points out that he still saved thousands of wildlings that would have been killed by the White Walkers. Jon is also aware that many of his Night's Watch brothers are unhappy with wildlings being let past the Wall, and Alliser warns him that his compassion will get them all killed.
In Dorne

Jaime is brought before Doran Martell to explain his actions. Jaime reveals that he was sent to rescue Myrcella due to a threatening message sent to them from Dorne. Doran quickly realizes that Ellaria was behind the threat, and apologizes. In order to avoid an escalation of hostilities, Doran negotiates a deal with Jaime. In return for Jaime's freedom and Myrcella's return to King's Landing, the Lannisters must allow Trystane to accompany them as Oberyn's replacement on the Small Council. Trystane also allows Bronn to go free under the condition that he allow Areo Hotah to strike him in the face in revenge for being struck by Bronn earlier.

After the meeting, Doran privately confronts Ellaria and presents her with an ultimatum: pledge loyalty to him or be executed. Ellaria tearfully pledges her loyalty in front of the Sand Snakes, and Doran warns her that this is the last chance he will ever give her. Ellaria then meets with Jaime and makes amends with him, conceding that it is neither his nor Myrcella's fault that Oberyn was killed.
In the North

Ramsay and his group of 20 men infiltrate Stannis' camp and sabotage the supplies by burning them. With his supplies gone, Stannis realizes that his army will not survive the winter. Davos recommends they retreat back to Castle Black, but Stannis refuses to retreat, and points out that they lack the supplies to make it back regardless. He orders Davos to return to Castle Black to request more supplies and reinforcements in return for Stannis fully manning the Wall with troops when he takes the Iron Throne. When Davos leaves, Stannis reluctantly allows Melisandre to burn Shireen at the stake as a sacrifice, believing that the "king's blood" in her veins will please the Lord of Light, who will then change their fortunes. As Shireen screams for her parents, Selyse, initially supportive of Stannis's decision, has a change of heart and attempts to stop the ceremony, but is restrained while her child is burned alive in front of Stannis's horrified troops.
In Meereen
Daenerys, accompanied by Tyrion, Missandei, Daario and Hizdahr, oversees the beginning of the fighting season in Daznak's Pit. During the beginning of the second battle, one of the fighters reveals himself to be Jorah. After successfully defeating the other combatants, Jorah suddenly picks up a spear and throws it towards the royal stage, killing an assassin sneaking up on Daenerys. Immediately, the Sons of the Harpy emerge from the crowd and begin killing many guards and spectators, including Hizdahr. Daenerys and her retinue attempt to escape, but the Sons of the Harpy seal the exits, leaving the survivors surrounded and trapped in the center of the fighting ring. Daenerys seemingly accepts her fate, when she hears Drogon roaring nearby. Drogon suddenly appears, setting ablaze and killing many Sons of the Harpy, causing some to flee. While a group of the Sons attack Drogon by throwing spears at it, Daenerys climbs on to Drogon's back, ordering the dragon to fly. The Unsullied drive the Sons of the Harpy away, while Drogon takes to the sky with Daenerys, with her allies left awe-struck as they watch her fly away. 
