In Meereen

Daenerys Targaryen receives a citizen who wants to be sold back into slavery because he feels his life as a high-ranking slave was better than as a freedman. An astonished Daenerys reluctantly grants his request, allowing him to form a contract with his former master that can last no longer than a year. The next citizen in line brings her the charred remains of his daughter, who was killed by Drogon, one of her dragons. While Drogon has not returned, she tearfully chains her two other dragons, Rhaegal and Viserion, away in the catacombs as a precaution.
Beyond the Wall

Jon Snow meets with the King-beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder, ostensibly to discuss an end to their conflict, although Jon actually plans to assassinate him. Though Mance eventually sees through Jon's ruse and nearly kills him, their negotiations are cut short when they hear a horn blast, and a massive cavalry charge led by King Stannis Baratheon and Ser Davos Seaworth overruns the wildling encampment. Mance surrenders to Stannis, and though Stannis thinks to kill him, Jon suggests taking him captive instead, as Mance once showed him similar mercy. After holding a funeral for the deceased brothers, Jon burns Ygritte's remains north of the Wall, following Tormund Giantsbane's request.

Further north, Bran Stark and his companions reach their destination: the large Heart Tree seen in Jojen Reed's vision. Upon approaching the tree, they are set upon by a group of undead. Though Jojen is killed in the attack, Bran, Hodor, and Meera Reed are saved by a Child of the Forest. The child takes the group into the cave under the Heart Tree to meet an old man sitting amongst tree roots, who tells Bran that while he will never be able to walk again, he will be able to fly.
In King's Landing

Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane lies dying from Prince Oberyn Martell's poisoned spear. Qyburn believes that he can save Clegane, while Grand Maester Pycelle disagrees. Despite Pycelle's protests, Cersei Lannister ousts him from his laboratory and gives Clegane's care over to Qyburn who cautions Cersei that, while he may be able to save Clegane, the procedure may "change" him. He assures her, however, that his procedure will not weaken Gregor.

Afterwards, Cersei tells her father, Tywin, that if forced to marry Loras Tyrell, she will admit her incestuous relationship with Jaime, and that her children are the issue of such. She leaves an outraged Tywin to meet Jaime in the Kingsguard's quarters, where she professes her love for him, and the two rekindle their relationship.

In the dungeons, Tyrion Lannister awaits his execution, but Jaime appears and helps him escape. They say their farewells in an underground tunnel, but Tyrion instead uses a small hidden passage to sneak into the Tower of the Hand. He finds Shae in his father Tywin's bed. Shae, who had falsely testified against Tyrion at his trial, initially thinks this is Tywin and addresses him as 'my lion', as she had previously done for Tyrion. She then attacks him with a knife, but Tyrion manages to strangle her to death.

Tyrion then readies Joffrey's crossbow and confronts Tywin on the privy and confesses that he had loved Shae. Tywin does not believe that Tyrion would actually shoot him. He tries to negotiate, but twice dismisses Shae as a whore, despite Tyrion's warning the first time. After the second time, Tyrion kills him with Joffrey's crossbow.

Tyrion then escapes on a ship bound for Essos with help from Varys. After hearing the bells in the castle raising the alarm, Varys decides to board the ship as well.
In the Vale
Brienne of Tarth and her squire, Podrick Payne, lose their horses as they make their way toward the Eyrie. They happen across Arya Stark and the Hound, Sandor Clegane. After Podrick recognises the Hound, Brienne deduces Arya's identity and tells her of her oath to her mother, Catelyn Stark. The Hound is unconvinced of her loyalties, pointing out her Lannister sword, and the matter quickly comes to blows. After a brutal brawl, Brienne knocks the Hound off a cliff, and unsuccessfully searches for Arya. After they leave, Arya emerges from hiding and finds the Hound grievously injured. Though he begs her for death, she instead takes his money and leaves him, presumably to die. Traveling by horse to a harbor, she attempts to buy passage north, only to be told the ship is bound for Essos. Upon hearing that the captain is travelling home to Braavos, she chooses to travel there, paying with the coin Jaqen H'ghar gave her ("Valar Morghulis"). 
