In the North

Lord Harald Karstark arrives at Winterfell, bearing news of the death of the hunters sent after Sansa Stark and Theon Greyjoy. Ramsay Bolton deduces that Sansa would have gone to Castle Black where, as the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch and her brother, Jon would offer both her and Theon his protection. Ramsay proposes to Roose Bolton that they storm the castle from the unprotected southern side. Roose warns Ramsay that these actions would turn the entire North against them. Maester Wolkan then enters and announces that Roose's wife Walda Frey has given birth to a son, prompting Ramsay to stab Roose, killing him. He then lures Walda and his baby half-brother into the kennels, where he has them mauled to death by his hounds.

Sansa learns from Brienne of Tarth that Arya is alive, but that she hasn't been seen since her disappearance in the Riverlands. Theon then tells Sansa that he cannot accompany her to Castle Black, as he still fears retribution from Jon and does not deserve her or Jon's forgiveness. Confident that Brienne and Podrick can better protect Sansa, Theon states that he plans to return "home."
In King's Landing

In Flea Bottom, a drunkard boasts about having exposed himself to Cersei during her walk of shame. After he leaves to urinate, he is confronted by Gregor Clegane, who smashes his head in against a wall.

As the body of Myrcella Baratheon lies in the Great Sept of Baelor, Jaime Lannister is approached by the High Sparrow. Jaime threatens the High Sparrow in response to Cersei's treatment at their hands, and the High Sparrow responds that the Faith Militant is large and its soldiers have nothing to lose, and with their strength, the High Sparrow has the power to "overthrow an empire," which unnerves Jaime.

Meanwhile, Cersei Lannister is forbidden to leave the Red Keep for Myrcella's funeral by her son King Tommen Baratheon in an effort to protect her from the Sparrows. Tommen later apologizes to her and asks her to teach him how to be strong so he can protect the people he loves.
In Meereen

Tyrion Lannister converses with Varys, Missandei, and Grey Worm, and learns that Astapor and Yunkai have been retaken by the Masters, leaving Meereen the only free city in Slaver's Bay. Knowing that they need the power of the dragons, Tyrion heads to the dungeons to free them. While wary at first, the dragons do not attack Tyrion and allow him to undo their shackles before retreating deeper into the dungeon.
In Braavos

Arya Stark continues to train blind with The Waif, but still performs poorly in her duels. After one particular defeat, Arya is surprised when Jaqen H'ghar, whom she has not encountered for a while, appears and attempts to tempt her with food, bedding, and the return of her vision. Arya refuses all of Jaqen's offers, and Jaqen tells Arya to follow him, telling her she no longer needs to live as a beggar on the streets.
Beyond the Wall

Bran Stark continues his training with the Three-eyed Raven. He witnesses a vision of a young Eddard Stark, Benjen, and Lyanna Stark training together in Winterfell, and also learns Hodor's real name, Wylis. However, the Three-eyed Raven pulls Bran out of the memory, warning him that he risks "drowning" in old memories. Outside the cave, Meera Reed stands watch aimlessly, though Leaf, the Child of the Forest assisting them, remarks that Bran will soon need Meera's help when he is able to better use his visions.
On the Iron Islands

Balon Greyjoy speaks to Yara about their war against the North. Yara points out that the armies of the North have retaken all of the Ironborn strongholds on the mainland, and pleads with him to end the war. However, Balon refuses and vows to send more troops to stage another invasion of the North. As Balon heads outside, he encounters his brother, Euron Greyjoy, who has come to overthrow him. Balon attempts to stab Euron, who throws him off a bridge to his death. At Balon's funeral, Yara swears revenge against Balon's killer, but is reminded by her uncle Aeron, a Drowned Priest, that her position as successor depends on the results of the Kingsmoot, a ceremony where the Ironborn elect their new leader.
At the Wall

Davos Seaworth and the Night's Watch loyalists, who are guarding Jon Snow's body within a chamber in the castle, prepare themselves for battle when Alliser Thorne and his allies begin to break down the door. As they are about to break through, the outer gates of the Castle are breached by the giant Wun Wun, followed by Tormund Giantsbane and an army of Wildlings, who have returned with Dolorous Edd. Outnumbered, the Night's Watchmen lay down their arms, and Alliser and the mutineers are dragged off to the cells under Edd's orders.

Inside, Davos pleads with Melisandre to attempt to resurrect Jon, reminding her of her previous miracles. Though Melisandre's faith has been shattered by Stannis Baratheon's defeat, she is reminded of her encounter with Thoros of Myr, and attempts a ritual, but seemingly to no avail. Defeated, Melisandre, Davos, Edd and Tormund leave the room. Within moments, Jon suddenly awakens on the table. 
