In the Riverlands

Disguised as Walder Frey, Arya Stark kills all the House Frey men with poisoned wine, denouncing them for their actions and leaving Walder's wife Kitty alive to bear witness that "the North remembers." While traveling south, Arya makes camp with friendly Lannister soldiers. Her claimed intention to kill the Queen is taken as a joke.

The Brotherhood Without Banners and Sandor Clegane take shelter in the farm Sandor once robbed; the farmer and his daughter are long dead inside. Beric Dondarrion admits he does not know why he was repeatedly resurrected. Thoros of Myr shows Sandor a flame vision of White Walkers at a point where the Wall meets the sea. At night, a deeply troubled Sandor privately buries the bodies. Discovering him, Thoros helps.
Beyond the Wall

The White Walkers and wights march south. Bran Stark and Meera Reed arrive at the Wall. Eddison Tollett, persuaded by Bran's knowledge of the White Walkers and of Edd's experiences with them, lets them in.
At Winterfell

Despite Sansa Stark's objections, Jon Snow forgives children Alys Karstark and Ned Umber for their fathers' betrayals; the two heirs swear loyalty. Jon orders Tormund Giantsbane and the wildlings to fortify the Wall at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, and all Northerners, including women and girls, to train for battle. In private, Jon is frustrated that Sansa undermined his authority; Sansa doesn't want Jon to repeat the mistakes for which their father Ned and brother Robb died. A message from Cersei Lannister orders Jon to bend the knee; Jon believes the Lannister army poses no threat to the North in winter, but Sansa knows Cersei is dangerous.

Littlefinger attempts to ingratiate himself with Sansa, who remains aloof. She tells Brienne of Tarth that she can't dismiss him because they still need the Vale's military support.
In King's Landing

Rumors of Daenerys Targaryen's imminent return to Westeros have reached Cersei, who begins to realize she and Jaime Lannister are surrounded by enemies with very few allies. Euron Greyjoy arrives in King's Landing with the Iron Fleet, offering Cersei an alliance and marriage. Cersei rejects Euron because he is untrustworthy. Euron leaves, promising to win her over with a priceless gift.
In Oldtown

Samwell Tarly finds his maester training includes less research than he expected and instead an excessive amount of menial labor. Archmaester Ebrose denies Sam's request for access to the library's restricted area; Ebrose believes Sam's warnings of White Walkers, but trusts the Wall. Subsequently, Sam steals a key to the restricted area and snatches a few books from it late at night. He learns of a dragonglass deposit under Dragonstone, and informs Jon via raven.

Jorah Mormont, his greyscale progressing, is a patient in isolation. When Sam collects his food dish, Jorah asks if Daenerys has arrived in Westeros. Sam doesn't know.
On Dragonstone
Daenerys Targaryen and her fleet arrive at Dragonstone. She and her advisors enter the castle. Alone with Tyrion Lannister in the war council room, she asks him, "Shall we begin?". 
