In King's Landing

Cersei assures Tycho that the Crown's debts to the Iron Bank will be fully repaid. They discuss the possibility of a new loan that would enable Qyburn to engage the mercenary Golden Company of Essos.
At Winterfell

Littlefinger gives Bran the Valyrian steel dagger that was used in the attempt on Bran's life. Littlefinger tries to get Bran to tell him of his experiences after fleeing Winterfell, and is disconcerted when Bran repeats to him Littlefinger's earlier remark to Varys that "chaos is a ladder." Meera visits Bran to say farewell, as she wants to be with her family when the White Walkers attack. Bran is indifferent to her departure, and a dismayed Meera remarks figuratively that Bran died in the Three-Eyed Raven's cave.

Arya arrives at Winterfell, and evades the guards to visit Ned's tomb in the crypts, where Sansa finds her. Sansa takes Arya to see Bran in the godswood. Arya is taken aback to find that Bran knows of her kill list, and Bran gives her the Valyrian steel dagger. Podrick reassures Brienne that she has fulfilled her oath to Catelyn; Brienne insists she did almost nothing. Later, Brienne and Podrick spar and Arya asks to train with Brienne. They fight to a draw as Sansa and Littlefinger watch.
At Dragonstone

Jon shows Daenerys the vast dragonglass mine, in which Children of the Forest cave drawings depict the Children and the First Men fighting together against the White Walkers. Seemingly convinced that Jon is telling the truth, Daenerys vows to fight for the North, but only if Jon bends the knee. Jon remains resistant.

Tyrion and Varys report the pyrrhic victory at Casterly Rock and the loss of Highgarden; Daenerys questions Tyrion's loyalties. Considering striking King's Landing with her dragons, she asks Jon for advice. He notes that her followers believe she can change the world; but if she destroys a city, she will be just another tyrant.

Later, the Ironborn survivors return to Dragonstone. Jon accosts Theon, saying Theon's role in saving Sansa is the only reason Jon doesn't kill him. Theon asks for Daenerys's help in rescuing Yara, but Daenerys is gone.
On the Roseroad
The bulk of the Lannister caravan approaches King's Landing after the Tyrell gold has been brought inside the city. Jaime gives Bronn a large satchel of gold, but Bronn still wants the castle he was promised. Riding Drogon, Daenerys leads a Dothraki attack that quickly overruns the caravan. Abandoning the gold where he drops it, Bronn wounds Drogon with Qyburn's scorpion. Drogon destroys the scorpion, then lands; Daenerys dismounts to tend Drogon's wound. Jaime charges her but Drogon breathes fire at him; Bronn tackles him off his horse, out of the flame's path and into the Blackwater Rush, where Jaime begins to sink under the weight of his armour. 
