In the Dothraki Sea

Daenerys is beginning to gain confidence in her new role as Drogo's wife and gains the respect of the exiled knight Ser Jorah Mormont, but her relationship with her brother Viserys becomes strained when he angrily assaults her under the assumption that she is giving him commands. As punishment, Viserys is choked and nearly killed by Daenerys's bloodrider Rakharo and is forced to walk back to camp after Daenerys intervenes to spare his life.

Irri notices that Daenerys is pregnant and shares the news with Jorah and Rakharo. Rather than being pleased, Jorah mysteriously departs for the Free City of Qohor for supplies. In their tent, Daenerys reveals to Drogo that their child is a boy.
In Winterfell

With Bran now awake, Old Nan tells him a tale of a long-ago endless winter, when the White Walkers first appeared riding their dead horses and raising Wights from the men they slaughtered. Her story is interrupted by Robb who sadly confirms to Bran that his injuries are permanent, and he'll never walk again. Bran, saying he is unable to remember anything about his fall, wishes he were dead.
At the Wall

Jon has joined the other recruits under the firm hand of Ser Alliser Thorne and easily beats every opponent sent against him. Ser Alliser berates them all for their poor performance, but has no kind words for Jon, dubbing him "Lord Snow" to mock his bastard heritage and telling him that he's "the least useless person here." Disheartened, Jon asks Benjen to take him in a several-month-long ranging north of the Wall, but his uncle blocks this, telling Jon that "here, a man gets what he earns when he earns it."

Tyrion tells Jon that he isn't "better" than any of his new "brothers", but only more fortunate, as he was trained by a master-at-arms, while the others are all orphan boys or criminals who have likely never held a sword before today. To make amends, Jon decides to give his fellow recruits proper sword training. Later, Tyrion is beseeched by Lord Commander Jeor Mormont and the elderly, blind Maester Aemon to ask his sister and brother-in-law for more men for the Night's Watch, as the wildlings are massing in numbers greater than the Watch is able to deal with, and rumours that the White Walkers have returned are becoming more widespread. Tyrion is skeptical, but agrees to do so. Before leaving the Wall, Tyrion fulfills his ambition to urinate off the top of the Wall and says goodbye to Jon, who finally accepts Tyrion as a friend.
In King's Landing

Eddard's party arrives at King's Landing. Eddard is immediately summoned to a meeting of the king's Small Council. On his way through the throne room, Eddard encounters Jaime Lannister, and the audience is told that Jaime killed the Mad King Aerys Targaryen, the father of Daenerys and Viserys Targaryen. Jaime reminds Eddard that Aerys had murdered Eddard's father and brother; however, Eddard does not consider this grounds for Jaime to break his oath as a knight of the Kingsguard.

Eddard joins the Small Council, consisting of the king's brother, Lord Renly, the eunuch Lord Varys, Grand Maester Pycelle and the Master of Coin Lord Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish. Littlefinger had once dueled Eddard's brother for Catelyn's hand in marriage and implies that he is still in love with her. Renly announces that Robert plans to hold a great tourney in honor of Eddard's appointment as the Hand of the King. Eddard learns that the crown is heavily indebted, primarily to the queen's father, Lord Tywin Lannister.

Catelyn arrives in King's Landing, supposedly in secret. However, she is taken by a pair of city watchmen to a brothel owned by Littlefinger. He meets her to tell her that he had her brought there to keep her safe and hidden. Varys, also present, reveals that he learned of Catelyn's arrival through his spies. The three of them and Ser Rodrik discuss the attempted murder of Bran. Littlefinger shocks them all by admitting that the assassin's dagger was once his own. He claims that he lost it to Tyrion Lannister, betting on Jaime Lannister to win a previous tourney. Littlefinger arranges a meeting between Eddard and Catelyn, and Eddard reluctantly takes on Littlefinger as an ally who will help them find Bran's assailant.

Eddard returns to his keep, only to find his daughters arguing. Arya is furious at Sansa for lying to protect Joffrey Baratheon. Ned reminds her that Joffrey is a prince and will be king one day with Sansa as his wife. Learning that his younger daughter aspires to be a swordsman and has a sword of her own, he hires the Braavosi "water dancer" (fencer) Syrio Forel to teach her the art of swordsmanship. 
