In King's Landing

Cersei, Daenerys, and their entourages meet. The Hound and Jon successfully use the captured wight, an animated corpse, to prove the existence and nature of the threat. Cersei agrees to help in the "Great War" against the dead on the condition that Jon remain neutral between the queens; Jon affirms he has already sworn himself to Daenerys, and Cersei retracts her support. Tyrion goes alone to confront Cersei, who has rejected Jaime's urgings to reconsider; Tyrion and Cersei discuss their family, and he realizes she is pregnant. Cersei returns to the parley and agrees to send her entire army north to fight the White Walkers.

Jaime prepares to mobilize the army. Cersei reveals she lied and will not join Daenerys and Jon's cause; Euron left for Essos to transport the mercenary Golden Company, with which she will fight the presumably weakened faction that wins the Great War. Jaime is disgusted at her callousness and refuses to break his word; despite Cersei's threat to have the Mountain kill him, he rides north alone. Snow falls on King's Landing.
On Dragonstone

Daenerys's party returns and plans to travel to Winterfell. Jorah advises Daenerys to fly a dragon there, but she decides to travel by sea and land with Jon, in hopes of garnering popular support. Theon seeks guidance from Jon, who calls him both a Greyjoy and a Stark, and declares they both preserve Ned's legacy. Theon decides to save Yara but a leader of the remaining Ironborn objects. Theon defeats the man in a brutal fight and the others join Theon.
At Winterfell

Sansa and Littlefinger discuss Arya's actions. Littlefinger advises Sansa to always assume others have the worst possible motive; Sansa suggests Arya will murder her to become Lady of Winterfell. Sansa summons Arya before the lords of the North and Vale, then stuns Littlefinger by accusing him of murder and treason, which Brandon corroborates. Finding no allies in the crowd, Littlefinger begs for mercy; Sansa thanks him for his lessons, and Arya executes him, slitting his throat with the Valyrian steel dagger. Later, Sansa and Arya compliment each other's strength but affirm they are strongest together.

Sam arrives at Winterfell with his family. Bran tells him that Jon's real parents were Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna Stark. Sam reveals information from the High Septon's journal: in secret, Rhaegar's marriage to Elia Martell was annulled and he married Lyanna. Bran views the wedding and Jon's birth, learning the name Lyanna gave him: Aegon Targaryen. Bran determines that, as Rhaegar's legitimate son, Jon is the true heir to the Iron Throne.
In the Narrow Sea

Tyrion witnesses Jon Snow entering Daenerys's cabin. Jon and Daenerys give in to their feelings for each other and the two have sex, unaware that they are related.
At Eastwatch
The undead army arrives at Eastwatch; when the Night King appears, riding Viserion, Tormund orders the defenders to evacuate. Breathing blue fire,[3] Viserion destroys Eastwatch and a section of the Wall, allowing the White Walkers to finally enter the Seven Kingdoms. 
