Outside Oxcross

Robb Stark launches a night-time attack over a Lannister reinforcement army encamped at Oxcross, easily defeating the Lannister forces. The next morning, while examining the battlefield, he discusses the captured Lannister personnel with his bannerman Lord Roose Bolton. Bolton favours flaying and eliminating the prisoners for interrogation and to preserve supplies, but Robb insists on their fair treatment and reminds him that his sisters are still prisoners at King's Landing. Robb later meets a neutral field nurse, Talisa, while aiding her in a foot amputation on a Lannister soldier. Despite Robb's protests, Talisa holds him accountable for the carnage at the battle; her spirit and forthrightness leave him impressed.
In King's Landing

King Joffrey Baratheon continues to grow more and more cruel; after hearing of Robb Stark's latest victory, he orders Ser Meryn Trant to deliver a public beating and shaming of Robb's sister, Sansa. Tyrion Lannister and Bronn arrive in time to defuse the situation; Bronn later suggests to Tyrion that sex may calm the boy king, and Tyrion arranges for the prostitutes Ros and Daisy to service Joffrey. However, Joffrey instead sadistically forces Ros to beat Daisy to send a message to Tyrion. Later, Ser Lancel Lannister visits Tyrion and informs him that Queen Cersei Lannister has ordered the release of Grand Maester Pycelle. Tyrion tells Lancel that he is aware of Lancel's affair with Cersei, but will keep the truth from Joffrey in exchange for Lancel spying on Cersei for him.
At Harrenhal

Having been previously captured, Arya Stark, Gendry, and Hot Pie are brought to the ruined castle of Harrenhal, currently under occupation of the Lannister army. The garrison there, under command of Gregor "The Mountain" Clegane, is brutally torturing and killing prisoners daily for information concerning a group called "The Brotherhood". Gendry is eventually selected to be tortured, but before he can be harmed, Lord Tywin Lannister arrives, ending the brutality and ordering the prisoners be put to work. When Polliver catches Arya staring at her sword, Needle, he threatens her. However, she is spared by Tywin, who recognizes that she is a girl and makes her his cupbearer.
Outside Qarth

Daenerys Targaryen receives word from Kovarro that the city of Qarth is nearby, and that they are willing to welcome the "Mother of Dragons". Ser Jorah Mormont cautions that Qarth is located in the "Garden of Bones", the brutal desert in which those turned away by Qarth have perished. When Daenerys' "horde" arrives in Qarth, they are met by the Thirteen, the leaders of the city. One of the Thirteen, a spice merchant, speaks for the group and asks to see Daenerys' dragons in exchange for food and rest inside Qarth. Daenerys asks that her people are attended to first before she reveals her dragons, and the Thirteen decide to turn Daenerys' group away and abandon them to the Garden of Bones. Daenerys swears vengeance on Qarth should they not comply, and one of the Thirteen, Xaro Xhoan Daxos, breaks with the group and vouches for the behavior of Daenerys' people through a blood oath, after which they are allowed to enter the city.
In the Stormlands

Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish arrives in the Stormlands and meets Renly Baratheon to discuss the siege of King's Landing. Later, he presses Margaery Tyrell about her marriage and Renly's relationship with her brother Loras, but the potential queen rebuffs his questions. He next meets with Catelyn Stark, who flies into a rage at the sight of him. Littlefinger tells her that the Lannisters have both Sansa and Arya and want to trade them for Ser Jaime Lannister. As a gesture of goodwill, he brings her Ned Stark's remains.

Later, Renly and Catelyn parley with Stannis Baratheon and Melisandre. Stannis offers Renly the chance to surrender in exchange for becoming his heir, but Renly denies Stannis, since he possesses the larger army and the support of many noble families and feels that he has the support of the smallfolk. Before departing, Stannis tells Renly he has until sunrise to reconsider or be destroyed.

At night, Stannis orders Davos Seaworth to take Melisandre to shore and to be sure they are not seen. Once ashore, Melisandre reveals she is, impossibly, in late-stage pregnancy and gives birth to a horrific, shadowy figure, which disappears in a cloud of smoke. 
