In King's Landing

Tywin Lannister calls a meeting of the Small Council. He demands knowledge of Jaime's location, which the spymaster, Lord Varys, is unable to provide. Tywin then announces plans to have Lord Petyr Baelish wed Lysa Arryn to deprive Robb Stark of more allies in the war. Tywin names his son Tyrion as Baelish's replacement as Master of Coin (treasurer), despite Tyrion's pointing out his lack of expertise. Later, while retrieving the ledgers for his new appointment, Lord Baelish advises Tyrion on the job. Tyrion then rewards his virgin squire Podrick Payne with the services of three prostitutes for saving his life in the Battle of the Blackwater; Tyrion is later surprised to discover that they refused payment due to Podrick's skill in lovemaking. While going over the books, Tyrion discovers that as treasurer Baelish has borrowed millions in gold from Tywin, as well as tens of millions from the Iron Bank of Braavos. A debt to Tywin is a problem since, regardless of his familial relationship with the king, Tyrion fears he will not forgive the debt despite the crown's dire straits. However, he is more worried about the Iron Bank, since if they are not paid back in due time they may very well begin funding the Crown's enemies.
In the North

Theon Greyjoy is awakened by the cleaning boy, released from his bondage, given a horse, and told to ride east to his sister, Yara, at Deepwood Motte. After riding all night, Theon finds out that he is being pursued by his captors; he is soon caught and knocked off his horse. Moments before their leader attempts to rape him, Theon is saved by the cleaning boy, an expert bowman, who kills the soldiers and accompanies him onward.
At Dragonstone

Stannis Baratheon accuses Melisandre of trying to abandon him as she is heading to a ship bound for an unknown destination which she claims will be revealed to her by the Lord of Light. Stannis begs her to give him another son, but she says he does not have the strength. She informs him that her magic requires king's blood and that it will be necessary to acquire it from others who share Stannis' blood.
In Astapor

Ser Jorah Mormont and Ser Barristan Selmy offer Daenerys Targaryen their differing counsel over the choice of soldiers to use upon their return to Westeros. Ser Barristan would have them use free, loyal men, while Ser Jorah presses in favor of the Unsullied. Shortly afterwards, Daenerys declares to slaver Kraznys mo Nakloz that she wishes to purchase all 8,000 Unsullied and the boys still in training to become Unsullied. When Kraznys tells her she cannot afford them, insulting her in Old Valyrian all the while, Daenerys offers one of her dragons, despite the counsel of both Jorah and Barristan. Kraznys demands all three dragons, then two, then simply the largest one, to which Daenerys finally agrees. Before leaving, Daenerys demands Kraznys's slave translator Missandei as a gift "for a bargain well struck," and departs with her.
Beyond the Wall

The wildling army, led by Mance Rayder arrives at the Fist of the First Men to find a field of decapitated horses arranged in shape of a whirl by the White Walkers. Jon Snow notes that there are no dead Night's Watch brothers amongst the horses, which Orell claims he had seen. Rayder tells Jon that the dead have become wights, and orders Tormund Giantsbane to take 20 men, along with Jon, and climb the Wall. Rayder then says he will light the biggest fire the North has seen to signal them to attack the Night's Watch. He stipulates that if Snow doesn't prove useful, he can be thrown off the Wall.

Arriving at Craster's Keep, the remaining Night's Watch brothers seek refuge under his roof. Craster reluctantly allows them into his keep. After being ridiculed by Craster, Samwell Tarly leaves the keep and witnesses Gilly giving birth to a boy.
At Riverrun

Lord Hoster Tully is given a ship burial, attended by his family and bannermen. When his son, Edmure, is unable to set the boat ablaze despite three arrow shots, Hoster's brother, Brynden "the Blackfish" shoves Edmure out of the way and sets the boat on fire with one arrow, shaming Edmure in front of the group. Shortly after, while in conference with King Robb, Edmure is chastised for having disobeyed orders not to engage Ser Gregor Clegane. Later, Lady Catelyn Stark discusses her pain with Brynden. Queen Talisa pays a visit to Tywin's captured nephews, Martyn and Willem Lannister, and tends to their wounds.
In the Riverlands
Props from the episode: Jaime Lannister's severed hand, his shackles and Locke's cleaver.

Arya Stark confronts Sandor "the Hound" Clegane about killing Arya's friend Mycah while traveling from Winterfell, but before the Hound can reply, he is taken away in a cart. Arya and Gendry then say goodbye to Hot Pie, who tells them that the Brotherhood has left him at the inn as payment to the innkeeper after proving his skill as a cook.

Locke and his men transport Ser Jaime Lannister and Brienne of Tarth to Harrenhal. Along the way, Brienne and Jaime bicker about their capture, Brienne chides Jaime for his poor swordplay, and Jaime anticipates the men will try to rape Brienne, suggesting she submit to their advances or face being killed. However, he concedes that if he were in Brienne's position he would make the men kill him. At camp for the night, when Locke's men attempt to rape Brienne, Jaime convinces Locke that Brienne's father is rich and would pay ransom to have her back chaste and unharmed. Locke stops the men from raping Brienne. However, Jaime then tries to secure his own release, promising Locke that his father Tywin will reward him with gold and titles if he is returned to him. Locke feigns acceptance but is actually offended by Jaime's offer, sneers that Jaime is powerless without his father, and drives home the point by severing Jaime's right hand – his sword hand. 
